# Articles and Chapters

- Several recent and forthcoming papers are available on [<i class="ai ai-academia" />cademia.edu](http://queensu.academia.edu/WillKymlicka/).

## Forthcoming

- “The Precarious Resilience of Multiculturalism in Canada”, _American Review of Canadian Studies_, Vol. 51/1, forthcoming (part of special issue on “A Country Apart? Canadian Exceptionalism in Immigration Politics and Policy”).
- “Transformative Animal Protection” in Kristin Voigt, Valéry Giroux, and Angie Pepper (eds) _The Ethics of Animal Shelters_ (Oxford University Press), forthcoming. Co-authored with Sue Donaldson.
- “Devolution and the Promotion (or Evasion) of Minority Rights”, in _Federalism and Decentralization in the Contemporary Middle East_,  eds. Omar Dajani and Asli Bali (Cambridge University Press), forthcoming.
- “Philosophies of Inclusion and Exclusion”, in Edward Koning (ed) _The Exclusion of Immigrants from Welfare Programs_ (University of Toronto Press), forthcoming.
- “The Politics of Multiculturalism and Redistribution: Immigration, Accommodation and Solidarity in Diverse Democracies”, in Markus Crepaz (ed) _Edward Elgar Handbook on Migration and Welfare_ (Elgar, forthcoming). Co-authored with Keith Banting and Daniel Westlake.
- “The Boundaries of Generosity: Membership, Inclusion and Redistribution”, in Markus Crepaz (ed.) _The Edward Elgar Handbook on Migration and Welfare_, (Elgar, forthcoming). Co-authored with Allison Harell and Keith Banting. 
- “Nationhood, Multiculturalism and the Ethics of Membership”, in Liav Orgad and Ruud Koopmans (eds) _Majorities, Minorities, and the Future of Nationhood_ (Cambridge University Press, forthcoming).



## Published
1. “Building Solidarities through Public Education: National, Multicultural and Cosmopolitan?”, _On Education. Journal for Research and Debate_, Vol. 4/10 (2021). https://doi.org/10.17899/on_ed.2021.10.3
2. "Shared Membership Beyond National Identity: Deservingness and Solidarity in Diverse Societies”, _Political Studies_, early view (co-authored with Allison Harell, Keith Banting and Rebecca Wallace).  https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/0032321721996939
3. "Citizenship, Communities and Identity in Canada", in James Bickerton and Alain Gagnon (eds) _Canadian Politics: Seventh Edition_, (University of Toronto Press, 2020), 327-48.
4. “Beyond National Identity: Liberal Nationalism, Shared Membership and Solidarity”, in _Liberal Nationalism and its Critics: Normative and Empirical Questions_, eds. Gina Gustavsson and David Miller (Oxford University Press, 2020), 205-25 (co-authored by Keith Banting, Allison Harell, and Rebecca Wallace).
5. “Animal Labour in a Post-Work Society”, in _Animal Labour: A New Frontier of Interspecies Justice?_, edited by Charlotte Blattner, Kendra Coulter & Will Kymlicka (Oxford University Press, 2020), 207-228 (co-authored with Sue Donaldson).
6. “Introduction: Animal Labour and the Quest for Interspecies Justice”, in _Animal Labour: A New Frontier of Interspecies Justice?_  (OUP, 2020), pp. 1-27 (coauthored with Charlotte Blattner, Kendra Coulter).
7. "Civics Education in an Age of Mobility", in Edison Duynh (ed) _The Future of Education_ (Institute for Public Policy Research, London, 2019), pp. 10-14.
8. "Deschooling Multiculturalism", _Ethnicities_, Vol. 19/6, 2019: 971-82 (part of symposium on "The Bristol School of Multiculturalism"). Translated into [Chinese](/publications/translated/chinese)
9. "Membership without Social Citizenship? Deservingness and Redistribution as Grounds for Equality", _Daedalus: Journal of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences_, 148/3 (2019): 73-104 (co-authored with Irene Bloemraad, Michèle Lamont, Leanne Son Hing).
10. "The Participatory Turn in Gender Equality and its Relevance for Multicultural Feminism", in _Gender Parity and Multicultural Feminism: Towards a New Synthesis_, ed. Will Kymlicka and Ruth Rubio-Marin (Oxford University Press, 2018),pp. 1-45 (co-authored with Ruth Rubio-Marin).
11. "Introduction: The Progressive's Dilemma" in Elizabeth Goodyear-Grant, Richard Johnston, Will Kymlicka, and John Myles (eds) _Federalism and the Welfare State in a Multicultural World_ (McGill-Queen's University Press, 2018), pp. 1-16 (co-authored by Richard Johnston, John Myles, Elizabeth Goodyear-Grant).
12. "Rights", in Lori Gruen (ed) _Critical Terms in Animal Studies_ (University of Chicago Press, 2018), pp. 320-336 (co-authored with Sue Donaldson).
13. "Human Rights without Human Supremacism", _Canadian Journal of Philosophy_, 48/6 (2018): 763-792. This is the text of my 2017 Canadian Journal of Philosophy Distinguished Lecture presented at the CPA in June 2017. Translated into [Spanish](/publications/translated/spanish).
14. "Children and Animals" in Gideon Calder, Jurgen De Wispelaere and Anca Gheaus (eds) _The Routledge Handbook on the Philosophy of Childhood and Children_ (Routledge, 2018), pp. 282-293\. [co-authored with Sue Donaldson].
15. "Linking Self-Determination and Human Rights: Comment on Jones" in Adam Etinson (ed) _Human Rights: Moral or Political?_ (Oxford University Press, 2018), 460-468.
16. "Ethnoreligious Identity, Immigration and Redistribution", _Journal of Experimental Political Science_, 4/3 (2017): 173-82 (co-authored with Stuart Soroka, Matthew Wright, Richard Johnston, Jack Citrin and Keith Banting).
17. "Minority Rights", in Robyn Eckersley and Chris Brown (eds) _Oxford Handbook of International Political Theory_ (Oxford University Press, 2018), 166-78.
18. "Liberal Multiculturalism as a Political Theory of State-Minority Relations" , _Political Theory_, 46/1 (2018): 81-91 (invited commentary for symposium on Alan Patten's Equal Recognition).
19. "Metics, Members and Citizens", in Rainer Bauböck (ed) _Democratic Inclusion: Rainer Bauböck in Dialogue_ (Manchester University Press, 2018), 160-82\. (co-authored with Sue Donaldson). [One of six invited commentaries on Bauböck's lead essay].
20. "Born Allies: Children and Animals", in Laura Buzzard, Don LePan, Nora Ruddock and Alexandria Stuart (eds) _The Broadview Anthology of Expository Prose, 3rd Canadian Edition_ (Broadview Press, 2017), 1014-1024 (co-authored with Sue Donaldson).
21. "Multiculturalism without Citizenship?" in Anna Triandafyllidou (ed) _Multicultural Governance in a Mobile World_ (Edinburgh University Press, 2017), pp. 139-161\. [Translated into [German]](/publications/translated/german)
22. "Afterword: Realigning Multiculturalism and Animal Rights" in Luis Cordeiro-Rodrigues and Les Mitchell (eds) _Animals, Race and Multiculturalism_ (Palgrave, 2017), pp. 295-304.
23. "Inclusive Citizenship beyond the Capacity Contract", in Ayelet Shachar, Irene Bloemraad, Maarten Vink and Rainer Bauböck (eds) _Oxford Handbook of Citizenship_ (Oxford University Press, 2017), pp. 838-859 (co-authored with Sue Donaldson).
24. "Social Membership: Animal Law beyond the Property/Personhood Impasse", _Dalhousie Law Journal_, Vol. 40, 2017: 123-155.
25. "Animals in Political Theory" in Linda Kalof (ed) _Oxford Handbook of Animal Studies_ (Oxford University Press, 2017), 43-64 [co-authored with Sue Donaldson].
26. "Foreword: Citizenship Education from Multicultural to Cosmopolitan?" in James Banks (ed) _Citizenship Education and Global Migration: Implications for Theory, Research, and Teaching_ (American Educational Research Association, Washington, 2017), xi-xvii.
27. "Rethinking membership and participation in an inclusive democracy: cognitive disability, children, animals", in Barbara Arneil and Nancy Hirschmann (eds) _Disability and Political Theory_ (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2016), 168-97.[co-authored with Sue Donaldson].
28. "Locating Animals in Political Philosophy", _Philosophy Compass_, Vol. 11/11 (2016): 692–701 (co-authored with Sue Donaldson).
29. "Trajectories of Multicultural Citizenship" in Richard Marback (ed) _Representation and Citizenship_ (Wayne State University Press, 2016), pp. 52-78.
30. "Envisioning the Zoopolitical Revolution" in Paola Cavalieri (ed) _Philosophy and the Politics of Animal Liberation_ (Palgrave, 2016), 71-116 [co-authored with Sue Donaldson].
31. "Models of Citizenship, Inclusion and Empowerment: National Minorities, Immigrants and Animals? An Interview with Will Kymlicka", _Political Theory_ Vol. 44/3 (2016): 394–409\. (interviewed by Michael Jewkes and Jean-François Grégoire).
32. "Between Wildness and Domestication: Rethinking Categories and Boundaries in Response to Animal Agency" , in Bernice Bovenkerk and Jozef Keulartz (eds) _Animal Ethics in the Age of Humans: Blurring boundaries of human-animal relationships_ (Springer, 2016), 225-39 [co-authored with Sue Donaldson].
33. "Liberalism, Community and Culture 25 Years On", _Dve domovini • Two Homelands_ (Slovenian Migration Institute), #44 (2016): 67-76\. [A reply to five commentators in a symposium celebrating the 25th anniversary of my _Liberalism, Community and Culture_ book].
34. "From Sociability to Solidarity: Reply to Commentators", _Comparative Migration Studies_, Vol. 4/9 (2016): 1-5\. [Online](http://comparativemigrationstudies.springeropen.com/articles/10.1186/s40878-016-0030-2)
35. "Defending Diversity in an Era of Populism: Multiculturalism and Interculturalism Compared" in Nasar Meer, Tariq Modood and Ricard Zapata-Barrero (eds) _Multiculturalism and Interculturalism: Debating the Dividing Lines_ (Edinburgh University Press, 2016), pp. 158-77.
36. "Migration and Welfare State Spending", _European Political Science Review_, Vol. 8, #2 (2016): 173-94 [co-authored with Stuart Soroka, Richard Johnston, Keith Banting and Anthony Kevins].
37. "Misinterpreting Multiculturalism", in Michael Boss (ed) _Bringing Culture Back In: Human Security and Social Trust_ (Aarhus University Press, 2016), pp. 70-87.
38. "The Three Lives of Multiculturalism", in Shibao Guo and Lloyd Wong (eds) _Revisiting Multiculturalism in Canada: Theories, Policies, and Debates_ (Sense Publishers, Rotterdam, 2015), pp.17-35.
39. "National Minorities and the Crisis of Multiculturalism in Europe: Commentary by Will Kymlicka and Keith Banting", _European Yearbook of Minority Issues_ Volume 12, 2016, pp. 42-46\. (Commentary on an article by Knut Vollebaek)
40. "Animal Citizenship" in Byron Williston (ed) _Environmental Ethics for Canadians_, second edition (Oxford University Press, 2016), pp. 39-43.[Co-authored with Sue Donaldson]. [Translated into [German](/publications/translated/german)].
41. "Solidarity in Diverse Societies: Beyond Neoliberal Multiculturalism and Welfare Chauvinism", _Comparative Migration Studies_, Vol. 3/1 (2015): 1-19\. (This is the lead article in a symposium, followed by seven commentaries, and then my reply). [Online](http://comparativemigrationstudies.springeropen.com/articles/10.1186/s40878-015-0017-4). Reprinted in Volker Kaul and Ananya Vajpeyi (eds) _Minorities and Populism: Critical Perspectives from South Asia and Europe_ (Springer, 2020), pp. 41-62. Translated into [Swedish](/publications/translated/swedish) and [French](/publications/translated/french).
42. "From Polis to Zoopolis: A Political Theory of Animal Rights" in Karen Wendling (ed) _Ethics in Canada: Ethical, Social and Political Perspectives_ (Oxford University Press, 2015), pp. 255-63\. (co-authored with Sue Donaldson). Reprinted in Linda Kalof and Amy Fitzgerald (eds) _The Animals Reader: The Essential Classic and Contemporary Writings_ Second Edition (Bloomsbury, London), forthcoming. Translated into [German](/publications/translated/german) and [Spanish](/publications/translated/spanish)].
43. "Farmed Animal Sanctuaries: The Heart of the Movement?", _Politics and Animals_ Vol. 1 (2015): 50-74 [co-authored with Sue Donaldson. [Open Access] http://journals.lub.lu.se/index.php/pa/article/view/15045). Reprinted in abridged form, in _Animal Lovers 2_ (Verlag der nGbK, Berlin, 2016), 57-72.
44. "Interspecies Politics: Reply to Hinchcliffe and Ladwig", _Journal of Political Philosophy_, Vol. 23/3 (2015): 321-44 [co-authored with Sue Donaldson].
45. "Minority Politics in the Middle East and North Africa: The Prospects for Transformative Change", _Ethnic and Racial Studies_, Vol. 38/14 (2015), pp. 2489-2498 (co-authored with Eva Pföstl). This is the introduction to a special issue Eva and I co-edited.
46. "Introduction" in Jane Boulden and Will Kymlicka (eds) _International Approaches to Governing Ethnic Diversity_ (Oxford University Press, 2015), pp. 1-21 [co-authored with Jane Boulden]. An abridged version is reprinted in _Commonwealth Governance Handbook 2014/15_ (Commonwealth Secretariat, London, 2015), pp. 110-113.
47. "Animal Rights and Aboriginal Rights", in Vaughan Black, Peter Sankoff and Katie Sykes (eds), _Canadian Perspectives on Animals and the Law_ (Irwin Law, 2015), 159-86 [co-authored with Sue Donaldson]. Reprinted in Reprinted in Eldon Soifer (ed) _Ethical Issues: Perspectives for Canadians_ 4th edition (Broadview Press 2020), pp. 172-86. [Translated into [Spanish]](/publications/translated/spanish)
48. "The Essentialist Critique of Multiculturalism: Theory, Policies and Ethos", in Varun Uberoi and Tariq Modood (eds) _Multiculturalism Rethought: Interpretations, Dilemmas and New Directions_ (Edinburgh University Press, 2015), pp. 209-49\. Also published as EUI Working Paper RSCAS 2014/59 (Robert Schuman Centre for Advanced Studies, European University Institute, Florence, 2014), 23 pp.[Translated into [French](/publications/translated/french) and [Italian](/publications/translated/italian)]
49. "Animals and the Frontiers of Citizenship", _Oxford Journal of Legal Studies_, Vol. 34/2 (2014): 200-219 [co-authored with Sue Donaldson. This is the text of the 2013 H.L.A. Hart Memorial Lecture presented at Oxford University in May 2013].Translated into [German](/publications/translated/german), [Spanish](/publications/translated/spanish), [Swedish](/publications/translated/swedish) and [French](/publications/translated/french)
50. "Introduction", in Will Kymlicka and Eva Pföstl (eds) _Multiculturalism and Minority Rights in the Arab World_ (Oxford University Press, 2014), pp. 1-24 [co-authored with Eva Pföstl]
51. "Unruly Beasts: Animal Citizens and the Threat of Tyranny", _Canadian Journal of Political Science_, Vol. 47/1 (2014): 23–45 [co-authored with Sue Donaldson].[Translated into [French]](/publications/translated/french)
52. "Animal Rights, Multiculturalism and the Left", _Journal of Social Philosophy_, Vol. 45/1 (2014), 116-135.[co-authored with Sue Donaldson].
53. "Introduction: Criminal Law and Cultural Diversity", in Will Kymlicka, Claes Lernestedt and Matt Matravers (eds) _Criminal Law and Cultural Diversity_ (Oxford University Press, 2014), pp. 1-14 [co-authored with Claes Lernestedt and Matt Matravers]
54. "Citizenship, Communities and Identity in Canada", in James Bickerton and Alain-G. Gagnon (eds) _Canadian Politics: Sixth Edition_ (University of Toronto Press, 2014), 21-44.
55. "Reply: Animal Citizenship, Liberal Theory and the Historical Moment", _Dialogue_, Vol. 52/4 (2013), 769-786 [co-authored with Sue Donaldson – part of symposium on Zoopolis].
56. "Is There Really a Retreat From Multiculturalism Policies? New Evidence from the Multiculturalism Policy Index", _Comparative European Politics_, Vol. 11/5 (2013): 577-98 [co-authored with Keith Banting].
57. "Reply to Svärd, Nurse, and Ryland", _Journal of Animal Ethics_, Vol. 3/2 (2013), pp. 208-19\. [co-authored with Sue Donaldson – part of symposium on Zoopolis].
58. "Minority Rights are a Part of Human Rights", in Piotr Dutkiewicz and Richard Sakwa (eds.) _22 Ideas to Fix the World: Conversations with the World's Foremost Thinkers_ (New York University Press), 2013, pp. 17-33.
59. "A Defense of Animal Citizens and Sovereigns", _Law, Ethics and Philosophy_, Vol. 1/1 (2013), pp. 143-160 [co-authored with Sue Donaldson – part of symposium on Zoopolis].
60. "Responsible Citizenship", _Trudeau Foundation Papers_, Vol. 4/2 (2012), pp. 56-87\. An abridged version is reprinted as "Responsible citizenship: A new approach", in _Commonwealth Governance Handbook 2013/14: Democracy, Development and Public Administration_ (Commonwealth Secretariat, London, 2013), pp. 92-96\. [Translated into [French](/publications/translated/french)]
61. "Neoliberal Multiculturalism??" in Peter A. Hall and Michèle Lamont (eds.) _Social Resilience in the Neo-Liberal Era_ (Cambridge University Press, 2013), pp. 99-125.[Translated into [Portuguese](/publications/translated/portuguese) and [Slovenian](/publications/translated/slovenian)]
62. "Multiculturalism: Success, Failure, and the Future" in Migration Policy Institute (ed.) _Rethinking National Identity in the Age of Migration_ (Verlag Bertelsmann Stiftung, Berlin, 2012), 33-78\. Reprinted in Fatih Öztürk, Murat Yanik and Hüseyin Özcan (eds) _A Road Map of a New Constitution for Turkey: Essays in Comparative Constitutional Law_ (Carolina Academic Press, 2014), 305-349.[Translated into [Turkish](/publications/translated/turkish), [Portuguese](/publications/translated/portuguese), and [German](/publications/translated/german)].
63. "Rooted Cosmopolitanism: Canada and the World" in Will Kymlicka and Kathryn Walker (eds.) _Rooted Cosmopolitanism: Canada and the World_ (University of British Columbia Press, 2012) pp. 1--27\. [co-authored with Kathryn Walker]
64. "A New Deal for Official Language Minority Communities?" in _Minorités linguistiques et societé/ Linguistic Minorities and Society_, Vol. 1/1, 2012, pp. 248-58.
65. "Ethnocultural Minority Groups, Status and Treatment of", in Ruth Chadwick (ed)._Encyclopedia of Applied Ethics_, Second Edition, volume 2\. (San Diego: Academic Press; 2012), pp. 178–88.
66. "Beyond the Indigenous/Minority Dichotomy?", in Stephen Allen and Alexandra Xanthaki (eds.) _Reflections on the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples_ (Hart Publishing, Oxford, 2011) pp. 183-208\. Excerpted in _The Commonwealth Yearbook 2014_ (Commonwealth Secretariat, London), pp. 186-189\. [Translated into [Spanish](/publications/translated/spanish) and [Portuguese](/publications/translated/portuguese)]
67. "Bringing Institutions Back In: How Public Institutions Assess Identity" in _Identity Politics in the Public Realm: Bringing Institutions Back In_, ed. Avigail Eisenberg and Will Kymlicka (UBC Press, 2011), 1-30 (co-authored with Avigail Eisenberg).
68. "Multicultural citizenship within multination states", _Ethnicities_, Volume 11/3, 2011: 281-302 (with commentaries by David Miller and Yasemin Soysal, pp. 303-312).
69. "Comment on N. Meer and T. Modood's 'Multiculturalism vs. Interculturalism'", _Journal of Intercultural Studies_ Vol 33/2 (2012), pp. 211-16.
70. "Multiculturalism in Normative Theory and Social Science", _Ethnicities_, Vol. 11/1 (2011): 5-11.
71. "Reply to Horowitz and Yashar", in _Nationalities Papers_, Vol. 38/1 (2010), pp. 153-59\. (part of symposium on my Multicultural Odysseys).
72. "Are Diversity and Solidarity Incompatible: Canada in Comparative Context", co-authored with Keith Banting, Richard Johnston, and Stuart Soroka in_Inroads_, #28 (Winter 2011), pp. 36-48.
73. "Ethnic, Linguistic and Multicultural Diversity in Canada", ", in John Courtney and David Smith (eds.) _Oxford Handbook of Canadian Politics_ (Oxford University Press, 2010), pp. 301-20.
74. "Reply to Segall, Gans and Gavison", in _Jerusalem Review of Legal Studies_, Vol. 2 (2010), pp. 91-101 (part of symposium on my Multicultural Odysseys).
75. "Will Kymlicka on Minority Rights", in David Edmonds and Nigel Warburton (eds.) _Philosophy Bites_ (Oxford University Press, 2010), pp. 77-88.
76. "Multiculturalism new and old", in Eva Pfoestl (ed.) _Towards a new Multiculturalism_ (Istituto di Studi Politici "S. Pio V", Rome), forthcoming.
77. "Transitional Justice, Federalism, and the Accommodation of Minority Nationalism" in Paige Arthur (ed.) _Identities in Transition_ (Cambridge University Press, 2011), pp. 303-333\. Translated into [Turkish](/publications/translated/turkish)]
78. "Liberal Multiculturalism and Human Rights" in Ferran Requejo and Miquel Caminal (eds.) _Political Liberalism and Multinational Democracies_ (Routledge, London, 2010), pp. 73-92.
79. "Testing the Liberal Multiculturalist Hypothesis: Normative Theories and Social Science Evidence", _Canadian Journal of Political Science_ Vol. 43:2 (2010) pp. 257-71\. [Translated into [Chinese](/publications/translated/chinese)]
80. "National Identity and Support for the Welfare State", _Canadian Journal of Political Science_ Vol. 43:2 (2010) pp. 349-377\. [co-authored with Richard Johnston, Keith Banting and Stuart Soroka]. Shortlisted for the CPSA's 2011 McMenemy Prize for the best article in the CJPS in 2010\. Reprinted in Andrzej Marcin Suszycki and Ireneusz Pawel Karolewski (eds.) _ICitizenship and Identity in the Welfare State_ (Baden-Baden: Nomos, 2013), pp. 109-137.
81. "Reply to Commentators", _Social Philosophy Today: Gender, Diversity and Difference_, Vol. 25 (Philosophy Documentation Center, Charlottesville, 2009), pp. 277-83\. (Reply to commentaries on my _Multicultural Odysseys_ by Joseph Betz, Cindy Holder and John Rowan).
82. "Canadian Multiculturalism: Global Anxieties and Local Debates", _British Journal of Canadian Studies_, Vol. 23/1 (2010), 43-72 (co-authored with Keith Banting).
83. "The Rise and Fall of Multiculturalism? New Debates on Inclusion and Accommodation in Diverse Societies" in _International Social Science Journal_ Vol. 199 (2010), pp. 97-112\. Reprinted in Steven Vertovec and Susanne Wessendorf (eds.) _The Multiculturalism Backlash: European discourses, policies and practices_ (Routledge, London, 2010), pp. 32-49\. [Translated into [Chinese](/publications/translated/chinese) and [Russian](/publications/translated/russian)]
84. "Categorizing Groups, Categorizing States: Theorizing Minority Rights in a World of Deep Diversity", _Ethics and International Affairs_, Vol. 23/4 (2009), pp 371-88\. Also in Yitzhak Benbaji and Naomi Sussmann (eds.) _Reading Walzer_ (Routledge, 2013), pp. 129-145.
85. "Introduction: Multicultural Directions", _Canadian Journal for Social Research_ Vol. 2/1 (2009), pp. 9-11\. This is a special issue that I guest-edited, containing recent research commissioned by the Government of Canada, including my own report on "The State of Multiculturalism in Canada" (pp. 13-32).
86. "Citizenship, Communities and Identity in Canada", in James Bickerton and Alain-G. Gagnon (eds.) _Canadian Politics_: Fifth Edition (University of Toronto Press, 2009), pp. 23-44.
87. "Comment on Merlan", in _Current Anthropology_, Vol. 50/3 (2009), pp. 323-325.
88. "The Governance of Religious Diversity: The Old and the New", in Paul Bramadat and Matthias Koenig (eds.) _International Migration and the Governance of Religious Diversity_ (McGill-Queen's University Press, 2009), pp. 323-334.
89. "Introduction: Struggles for Inclusion and Reconciliation in Modern Democracies" in Will Kymlicka and Bashir Bashir (eds.) _The Politics of Reconciliation in Multicultural Societies_ (Oxford University Press, 2008), pp. 1-24 (co-authored with Bashir Bashir).
90. "Introduction to Rights-Based Liberalism and its Critics" in Andrew Bailey, Samantha Brennan, Will Kymlicka, Jacob Levy, Alex Sager and Clark Wolf (eds.) _The Broadview Anthology of Social and Political Thought: Volume 2: The Twentieth Century and Beyond_ (Broadview Press, Peterborough, 2008), pp. 251-65 (co-authored with Alex Sager).
91. "The Multicultural Welfare State?" in Peter A. Hall and Michele Lamont (eds.) _Successful Societies: How Institutions and Culture Affect Health_ (Cambridge University Press, 2009), pp. 226-253.
92. "Minority Rights in Political Philosophy and International Law" in Samantha Besson and John Tasioulas (eds.) _The Philosophy of International Law_ (Oxford University Press, 2010), pp. 377-96\. [Translated into [Spanish](/publications/translated/spanish) and [Italian](/publications/translated/italian) and [Chinese](/publications/translated/chinese)]
93. "Reply" in _Ethnicities_ Vol. 8/1 (2008), pp. 169-75 (part of symposium on my Multicultural Odysseys book, responding to commentaries by Andreas Wimmer, Christine Chwaszcza, Gwendolyn Sasse, and Rainer Baubock – pp. 144-75).
94. "Multicultural Odysseys" in _Ethnopolitics_, Vol. 6/4 (2007), pp. 585-97 (lead article of symposium on my Multicultural Odysseys book). Also "Liberal Multiculturalism and Minority Rights: A Reply to Bell, Giraudon, Keating and Schmidtke", ibid, pp. 619-23.
95. "The Internationalization of Minority Rights" in _ICON: International Journal of Constitutional Law_, Vol. 6/1 (2008), pp. 1-32\. Also published in Sujit Choudhry (ed) _Constitutional Design for Divided Societies: Integration or Accommodation?_ (Oxford University Press, 2008), pp. 111-40\. [Translated into [Chinese](/publications/translated/chinese) and [Russian](/publications/translated/russian)]
96. "Multiculturalism, Social Justice and the Welfare State" in _Social Justice and Public Policy: Seeking Fairness in Diverse Societies_, edited by Gary Craig, David Gordon and Tania Burchardt (Policy Press, Bristol, 2008), pp. 53-75.
97. "National Cultural Autonomy and International Minority Rights Norms" in _Ethnopolitics_, Vol. 6/3, pp. 379-93\. Also published in David Smith and Karl Cordell (eds) _Cultural Autonomy in Contemporary Europe_ (Routledge, 2008), pp. 43-57\. Selected as one of top 10 articles in the first 10 years of _Ethnopolitics_.
98. "Tester les limites de multiculturalisme libéral? Le cas des tribunaux en droit familial" in _Éthique publique_, Vol. 9/1 (2007), pp. 27-39.
99. "Introduction: The Globalization of Ethics" in William Sullivan and Will Kymlicka (eds) _The Globalization of Ethics: Religious and Secular Perspectives_ (Cambridge University Press, 2007), pp. 1-16.
100. "Disentangling the Debate" in Janice Gross Stein, David Cameron, John Ibbitson, Will Kymlicka, John Meisel, Haroon Siddiqui and Michael Valpy, _Uneasy Partners: Multiculturalism and Rights in Canada_ (Wilfrid Laurier Press, Waterloo, 2007), pp. 137-56.
101. "Ethnocultural Diversity in a Liberal State: Making Sense of the Canadian Model(s)" in Keith Banting, Thomas Courchene and Leslie Seidle (eds) _Belonging? Diversity, Recognition and Shared Citizenship in Canada_ (Institute for Research on Public Policy, Montreal, 2007), pp. 39-86.[Translated into [French](/publications/translated/french)
102. "The Global Diffusion of Multiculturalism: Trends, Causes, Consequences" in Stephen Tierney (ed) _Accommodating Cultural Diversity_ (Ashgate, Aldershot, 2006), pp. 17-34.
103. "Multiculturalism and the Welfare State: Setting the Context" in Keith Banting and Will Kymlicka (eds.) _Multiculturalism and the Welfare State: Recognition and Redistribution in Contemporary Democracies_ (Oxford University Press, 2006), pp. 1-45 [co-authored with Keith Banting].
104. "Do Multiculturalism Policies Erode the Welfare State? An Empirical Analysis" in Keith Banting and Will Kymlicka (eds.)_Multiculturalism and the Welfare State: Recognition and Redistribution in Contemporary Democracies_ (Oxford University Press, 2006), pp. 49-91 [co-authored with Keith Banting, Richard Johnston and Stuart Soroka].
105. "Multi-nation Federalism" in Baogang He, Brian Galligan and Takashi Inoguchi (eds.) _Federalism in Asia_ (Edward Elgar Publishing, Cheltenham, 2007), pp. 33-56.
106. "Liberal Nationalism and Cosmopolitan Justice" in Robert Post (ed.) _Another Cosmopolitanism_ (Oxford University Press, Oxford, 2006), pp. 128-44.
107. "Immigration, Multiculturalism and the Welfare State" in _Ethics and International Affairs_, Vol. 20/3 (Fall 2006), pp. 281-304 [co-authored with Keith Banting] Selected for inclusion in Carnegie Council's "Essential Resources on Migration", July 2008.[Translated into [Italian](/publications/translated/italian)].
108. "Language Policies, National Identities, and Liberal-Democratic Norms" in Colin Williams (ed.) _Language and Governance_ (University of Wales Press, Cardiff, 2007), pp. 505-15.
109. "The Evolving Basis of European Norms of Minority Rights: Rights to Culture, Participation and Autonomy" in John McGarry and Michael Keating (eds.)_European Integration and the Nationalities Question_ (Routledge, London, 2006), pp. 35-63, reprinted in Omid Payrow Shabani (ed.) _Multiculturalism and Law: A Critical Debate_ (University of Wales Press, Cardiff, 2007), pp. 235-62, and in Marc Weller, Danika Blacklock and Katherine Nobbs (eds.) _The Protection of Minorities in the Wider Union_ (Palgrave, 2008), pp. 11-41.[Translated into [Spanish](/publications/translated/spanish)]
110. "The Americanization of Political Philosophy in Canada" in _Oxford Literary Review_, Vol. 28, 2008, pp. 79-89.
111. _Left-Liberalism Revisited_ in Christine Sypnowich (ed.) _The Egalitarian Conscience: Essays in Honour of G.A. Cohen_ (Oxford University Press, 2006), pp. 9-35\. Translated into [Spanish](/publications/translated/spanish)
112. "Emerging Western Models of Multination Federalism: Are They Relevant to Africa?" in David Turton (ed.) _Ethnic Federalism: The Ethiopian Experience in Comparative Perspective_ (Abbis Addis University Press and James Currey Publishers, 2006), pp. 32-64.
113. "National Minorities in Post-Communist Europe: The Role of International Norms and European Integration" in in Zoltan Barany and Robert Moser (eds.) _Ethnic Politics After Communism_ (Cornell University Press, Ithaca, 2005), 191-217.[[Romanian](/publications/translated/romanian)]
114. "Liberal Multiculturalism: Western Models, Global Trends and Asian Debates" in _Multiculturalism in Asia_, ed. Will Kymlicka and Baogang He (Oxford University Press, 2005), pp. 22-55.
115. "Identity Politics in Multination States" in Venice Commission _State Consolidation and National Identity_ (Council of Europe Publishing, Strasbourg, Science and Technique of Democracy Series #38, 2005), pp. 45-53\. Translated into [Chinese](/publications/translated/chinese) in Yu Keping and Li Yitian (eds.) Community and Political Solidarity (special issue of Marxism and Reality, Social Sciences Academic Press, Beijing, 2010), pp. 136-47.
116. "A European Experiment in Protecting Cultural Rights" in _Human Rights Dialogue_, Series 2, #12 (Spring 2005), pp. 28-30.
117. "Models of Multicultural Citizenship: Comparing Asia and the West" in Sor-hoon Tan (ed.) _Challenging Citizenship: Group Membership and Cultural Identity in a Global Age_ (Ashgate, Aldershot, 2005), pp. 110-26.
118. "The Uncertain Futures of Multiculturalism" in _Canadian Diversity_, Vol. 4/1 (2005), pp. 82-5.
119. "Renner and the Accommodation of Sub-state Nationalisms" in Ephraim Nimni (ed.) _National Cultural Autonomy and its Contemporary Critics_ (Routledge, 2005), pp. 137-49.
120. "Do Multiculturalism Policies Erode the Welfare State?" in Philippe Van Parijs (ed.)_Cultural Diversity Versus Economic Solidarity_ (Editions De Boeck Université, Brussels, 2004), pp. 227-84\. (Co-authored with Keith Banting). A condensed version has been published as "Multiculturalism and Welfare" _Dissent_, Vol. 50/4 (Fall 2003), pp. 59-66\. An even more condensed version has been published as "Multiculturalism and the Welfare State: An Emerging Debate" in _Canadian Diversity_, Vol. 4/1 (2005), pp. 103-6\. Reprinted in Stephan Leibfried and Steffen Mau (eds.) _Welfare States: Construction, Deconstruction, Reconstruction_ (Edward Elgar, forthcoming 2008). [Also published in [French](/publications/translated/french) and [Serbian](/publications/translated/serbian) and [Spanish](/publications/translated/spanish)]
121. "Marketing Canadian Pluralism in the International Arena" in _International Journal_, Vol. 59/4 (2004), pp. 829-52, reprinted in Linda White, Richard Simeon, Robert Vipond and Jennifer Walker (eds.) _The Comparative Turn in Canadian Political Science_ (UBC Press, 2008), pp. 99-120\. Also reprinted as "The Canadian Model of Diversity in a Comparative Perspective", in Stephen Tierney (ed.) Multiculturalism and the Canadian Constitution (UBC Press, 2007), pp. 61-90.
122. "Dworkin on Freedom and Culture" in _Dworkin and his Critics_, ed. Justine Burley. (Blackwell, Oxford, 2004), pp. 113-33.
123. "Citizenship, Communities and Identity in Canada" in James Bickerton and Alain-G. Gagnon (eds.) _Canadian Politics: Fourth Edition_ (Broadview Press, 2004), pp. 35-54\. This is an updated version of "Citizenship and Identity in Canada", in _Canadian Politics: Third Edition_, eds. Alain-G. Gagnon and James Bickerton (Broadview Press, 1999), pp. 19-38.
124. "Nation-Building and Minority Rights: Comparing Africa and the West" in Bruce Berman, Dickson Eyoh and Will Kymlicka (eds) _Ethnicity and Democracy in Africa_ (James Currey Publishers and Ohio University Press, 2004), pp. 54-71.
125. "Universal Minority Rights? The Prospects for Consensus" in Morigiwa Yasutomo, Ishiyama Fumihiko and Sakurai Tetsu (eds.) _Universal Minority Rights, A Transnational Approach_ (Archiv für Rechts- und Sozialphilosophie #96, Franz Steiner Verlag, Stuttgart, 2004), pp. 13-57\. Also, "Replies to Commentaries", pp. 105-23\. (This is the Proceedings of the Fifth Kobe Lecture, which I gave in Kyoto and Tokyo in December 1998).
126. "Justice and Security in the Accommodation of Minority Nationalism" in Alain Dieckhoff (ed.) _The Politics of Belonging: Nationalism, Liberalism and Pluralism_ (New York, Lexington, 2004), 127-54\. Reprinted in Stephen May, Tariq Modood and Judith Squires (eds.) _Ethnicity, Nationalism and Minority Rights_ (Cambridge University Press, 2004), pp. 144-75\. [Also Published in [French](/publications/translated/french), [Hungarian](/publications/translated/hungarian), [Spanish](/publications/translated/spanish), [Bosnian](/publications/translated/bosnian), and [Catalan](/publications/translated/catalan)]
127. "Two Dilemmas of Citizenship Education in Pluralist Societies" in Andrew Lockyer, Bernard Crick and John Annette (eds.) _Education for Democratic Citizenship: Issues of Theory and Practice_ (Ashgate, Aldershot), 2003, pp. 47-63\. [Also published in [Spanish](/publications/translated/spanish) and [Hebrew](/publications/translated/hebrew)]
128. "Conclusion: The Futures of Nationalism" in Umut Ozkirimli (ed.) _Nationalism and its Futures_ (Palgrave, Basingston, 2003), pp. 145-51.
129. "From Enlightenment Cosmopolitanism to Liberal Nationalism" in Steven Lukes (ed.) _The Enlightenment: Then and Now_ (Verso, forthcoming). [Also published in [Romanian](/publications/translated/romanian), [Catalan](/publications/translated/catalan), [Dutch](/publications/translated/dutch), and [Chinese](/publications/translated/chinese)]
130. "Foreword" in James A. Banks (ed.) _Diversity and Citizenship Education: Global Perspectives_ (Jossey-Bass, San Francisco, 2004), pp. xiii-xviii.
131. "Autonomía y Derechos Indígenas: Una visión comparativa" in Cynthia Arnson, Raúl Benitez Manuat and Andrew Selee _Chiapas: Interpretaciones sobre la negociación y la paz_ (Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, Mexico, 2003). pp. 103-112\. [in [Spanish](translated#spanish)]
132. "Immigration, Citizenship, Multiculturalism: Exploring the Links" in Sarah Spencer (ed.) _The Politics of Migration: Managing Opportunity, Conflict and Change_ (Blackwell, Oxford, 2003), pp. 195-208, reprinted in Steven Vertovec (ed.) _Major Work: Migration_ (Routledge), forthcoming 2009.
133. "Being Canadian" in _Government and Opposition_, Vol. 38/3 (2003): pp. 357-85\. Reprinted in Karen Wendling (ed) _Ethics in Canada: Ethical, Social and Political Perspectives_ (Oxford University Press, 2015), pp. 171-87.
134. "Multicultural States and Intercultural Citizens" in _Theory and Research in Education_, Vol. 1/2 (2003): 147-69\. [Also published in [Dutch](/publications/translated/dutch), [Italian](/publications/translated/italian) and [Spanish](/publications/translated/spanish)]. Reprinted in Jo Shaw and Igor Štiks (eds.) Citizenship Rights (Ashgate, 2013), pp. 183-205.
135. "Liberal Theories of Multiculturalism" in Lukas Meyer, Stanley Paulson and Thomas Pogge (eds.) _Rights, Culture and the Law_ (Oxford University Press, 2003), pp. 229-250.
136. _Citizenship_ in R. Frey and C. Wellman (eds.) _Blackwell Companion to Applied Ethics_ (Blackwell, Oxford, 2003). pp. 210-23\. (co-authored with Wayne Norman).
137. "New Forms of Citizenship" in Thomas Courchene and Donald Savoie (eds.) _The Art of the State: Governance in a World without Frontiers_ (Institute for Research on Public Policy, Montreal, 2003), pp. 265-309\. A revised version has been published as "Nationalism, Transnationalism and Postnationalism" in Ronald Dworkin (ed) _From Liberal Values to Democratic Transition_ (Central European Press, Budapest, 2003), pp. 227-68.
138. "Language Rights and Political Theory" in _Annual Review of Applied Linguistics_, Vol. 23 (2003): 3-21\. (co-authored with Alan Patten). [Also published in [Chinese](/publications/translated/chinese)]
139. "Canadian Multiculturalism in Historical and Comparative Perspective: Is Canada Unique?" in _Constitutional Forum_, Vol. 13/1 (2003): pp. 1-8\. Reprinted in Matthew Zachariah, Allan Sheppard and Leona Barratt (eds.) _Canadian Multiculturalism: Dreams, Realities, Experiences_ (Canadian Multicultural Education Foundation, Edmonton, 2004), pp. 157-72.
140. "Assessing the Politics of Diversity in Transition Countries" in Farimah Daftary and François Grin (eds.) _Nation-Building, Ethnicity and Language Politics in Transition Countries_ (ECMI/LGI Series on Ethnopolitics and Minority Issues, Open Society Institute, Budapest, 2003), pp. 1-29\. (with François Grin)
141. "Federalism and Nationalism in Canada: A Comparative Perspective" in Rekha Saxena (ed.) _Mapping Canadian Federalism for India_ (Konark Publishers, Delhi, 2002), pp. 80-114.
142. "Del estado nacional al estado multinacional" in _Democracia, Ciudadania y Diversidad_ (Programa de Naciones Unidas Sede Guatemala, PNUD, Guatemala City, 2002), pp. 67-94.
143. "The Impact of Group Rights on Fear and Trust: A Response to Offe" in _Hagar: International Social Science Review_ 3/1 (2002): 19-36.
144. "Multiculturalism and Minority Rights: West and East" in _Journal of Ethnopolitics and Minority Issues in Europe_ (JEMIE), issue #4, 2002: pp. 1-25\. This is the lead article of a ["Special Focus" section on my work](https://www.ecmi.de/publications/jemie/issue-42002).  Translated into [Portuguese](/publications/translated/portuguese).
145. "Civil Society and Government: A Liberal Egalitarian Perspective" in Nancy Rosenblum and Robert Post (eds.) _Civil Society and Government_ (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 2002), pp. 79-110.
146. "The Canadian Model of Multiculturalism and Its Relation to Other Models of Immigration" in _Multiculturalism and Diversity in Canada: Voices from Central Europe - Proceedings of Ist International Conference of Central European Canadianists_ (Central European Canadian Studies Secretariat, Masaryk University, Brno, 2001), pp. 11-24.
147. "Immigrant Integration and Minority Nationalism" in Michael Keating and John McGarry (eds.) _Minority Nationalism and the Changing International Order_ (Oxford University Press, 2001), 61-83\. [Also published in [Dutch](/publications/translated/dutch)]
148. "Altruism in Philosophical and Ethical Traditions: Two Views" in Jim Phillips, Bruce Chapman and David Stevens (eds.) _Between State and Market: Essays on Charities Law and Policy in Canada_ (McGill-Queen's University Press, 2001), pp. 87-126.
149. "Territorial Boundaries: A Liberal Egalitarian Perspective" in David Miller and Sohail Hashmi (eds.) _Boundaries and Justice: Diverse Ethical Perspectives_ (Princeton University Press, 2001), pp. 249-75\. [Also published in [Spanish](/publications/translated/spanish)]
150. "Citizenship in Culturally Diverse Societies: Issues, Contexts, Concepts", in Will Kymlicka and Wayne Norman (eds.) _Citizenship in Diverse Societies_ (Oxford University Press, 2000), pp. 1-41\. [co-authored with Wayne Norman]. Translated into [Polish](/publications/translated/polish). Reprinted in _Citizenship: Critical Concepts in Political Science_, Richard Bellamy and Madeline Kennedy-Macfoy (eds.) (Taylor and Francis, 2013), forthcoming.
151. "American Multiculturalism and the `Nations Within'" in Duncan Ivison, Paul Patton and Will Sanders (eds.) _Political Theory and the Rights of Indigenous Peoples_ (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 2000), pp. 216-36.
152. "A North American View" in in symposium on The Future of Multi-Ethnic Britian _Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies_, Vol. 26/4 (2000), pp.719-38.
153. "The New Debate on Minority Rights" in Wayne Norman and Ronald Beiner (eds.) _Canadian Political Philosophy: Contemporary Reflections_ (Oxford University Press, 2000), pp. 159-76\. Reprinted in Ferran Requejo (ed.) _Democracy and National Pluralism_ (Routledge, 2001), pp. 15-39\. Reprinted, with new postscript, in Anthony Laden and David Owen (eds.) _Multiculturalism and Political Theory_ (Cambridge University Press, 2007), pp. 25-59\. [Also published in [French](/publications/translated/french) and [Spanish](/publications/translated/spanish)]
154. "Federalism and Secession At Home and Abroad" in _Canadian Journal of Law and Jurisprudence_ Vol. 13/2 (2000), pp. 207-224\. Reprinted in Ramón Máiz and Ferran Requejo (eds.) _Democracy, Nationalism and Multiculturalism_ (Frank Cass, 2005), pp. 108-26\. [Also published in [Russian](/publications/translated/russian), [Spanish](/publications/translated/spanish), [Persian](/publications/translated/persian) and [Portuguese](/publications/translated/portugese)]
155. "Estonia's integration policies in a comparitive perspective" in _Estonia's Integration Landscape: From Apathy to Harmony_ (Jaan Tonissoni Instituut, Tallinn, 2000), pp. 29-57\. [Also published in [Estonian](/publications/translated/estonian)]
156. "Nation-Building and Minority Rights: Comparing East and West" in _Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies_ Vol. 26/2 (2000), pp. 183-212\. [Also published in [Spanish](/publications/translated/spanish)]
157. "Modernity and National Identity" in Shlomo Ben-Ami, Yoav Peled and Alberto Spektorowski (eds.)_Ethnic Challenges to the Modern Nation State_ (Macmillan, London, 2000), pp. 11-41.
158. "Democracy and Multiculturalism" in Raphael Cohen-Almagor (ed.)_Challenges to Democracy: Essays in honour and memory of Isaiah Berlin_ (Ashgate, Aldershot, 2000), pp. 89-118 (co-authored with Raphael Cohen-Almagor). Reprinted in Maria Baghramian and Attracta Ingram (eds.) _Pluralism: The Philosophy and Politics of Diversity_ (Routledge, 2000), pp. 228-50\. [Also published in [Hebrew](/publications/translated/hebrew)]
159. "Cosmopolitanism, Nation-States and Minority Nationalism: A Critical Review of Recent Literature" in _European Journal of Philosophy_, Vol. 7/1 (1999), pp. 65-88 (co-authored with Christine Straehle). [Also published in [Hungarian](/publications/translated/hungarian), [Spanish](/publications/translated/spanish), and [Chinese](/publications/translated/chinese)].
160. "Teoria si Practica Multiculturalismului Canadian" in _Altera_, Vol. 12 (1999), pp. 48-67\. [in [Romanian](translated#romanian)].
161. "Citizenship and Identity in Canada" in Alain-G. Gagnon and James Bickerton (eds.) _Canadian Politics: Third Edition_ (Broadview Press, 1999), pp. 19-38.
162. "Liberal Complacencies" in Susan Okin _Is Multiculturalism Bad For Women?_ (Princeton University Press, 1999), pp. 31-4\. Translated into [Persian](/publications/translated/persian) and [Swedish](/publications/translated/swedish).
163. "Education for Citizenship" in Terence McLaughlin and Mark Halstead (eds.) _Education in Morality_ (Routledge, London, 1999), pp. 79-102\. Reprinted in _The School Field_ (Slovenia), Vol. 10, #1 (1999), pp. 9-35, and in James Arthur and Ian Davies (eds.) _Citizenship Education: Sage Library of Educational Thought & Practice_ (Sage, 2008), Volume 1\. Also [Also published in [Spanish](/publications/translated/spanish), [Portuguese](/publications/translated/portugese) and [Chinese](/publications/translated/chinese)]
164. "Minority Nationalism within Liberal Democracies" in Desmond Clarke and Charles Jones (eds.) _The Rights of Nations: Nations and Nationalism in a Changing World_ (Cork University Press, Cork, 1999), pp. 100-26\. [Also published in [Spanish](/publications/translated/spanish)]
165. "An Update from the Multiculturalism Wars: Commentary on Shachar and Spinner-Halev" in Steven Lukes and Christian Joppke (eds.) _Multicultural Questions_ (Oxford University Press, 1999), pp. 112-29.
166. "Citizenship in an Era of Globalization: Commentary on Held" in Ian Shapiro and Casiano Hacker-Cordon (eds.) _Democracy's Edges_ (Cambridge University Press, 1999), pp. 112-26\. Reprinted in Sean Hier (ed.) _Contemporary Sociological Thought: Themes and Theories_ (Canadian Scholar's Press, Toronto, 2005), 455-64\. Also reprinted in Garrett Wallace Brown and David Held (eds.) _The Cosmopolitan Reader_ (Polity Press 2010), 435-443.
167. "American Multiculturalism in the International Arena" in _Dissent_ (Fall 1998), pp.73-79\. [Also published in [French](/publications/translated/french), [Catalan](/publications/translated/catalan), [German](/publications/translated/german), and [Spanish](/publications/translated/spanish)]
168. "Liberal Egalitarianism and Civic Republicanism: Friends or Enemies?" in Anita Allen and Milton Regan (eds.) _Debating Democracy's Discontent: Essays on Politics, Law and Public Philosophy_ (Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1998), pp. 131-48\. [Also published in [Spanish](/publications/translated/spanish)]
169. "Ethnic Relations and Western Political Theory" in Magda Opalski (ed.) _Managing Diversity in Plural Societies: Minorities, Migration and Nation-Building in Post-Communist Europe_ Forum Eastern Europe, Ottawa, 1998\. pp. 275-322\. [Also published in [Romanian](/publications/translated/romanian), [Serbian](/publications/translated/romanian), and [Ukrainian](/publications/translated/romanian)].
170. "Introduction: An Emerging Consensus?" in special issue of _Ethical Theory and Moral Practice_ on "Nationalism, Multiculturalism and Liberal Democracy", Vol. 1/2 (1998), pp.143-57\. [Also published in [Catalan](/publications/translated/catalan)].
171. "Multinational Federalism in Canada: Rethinking the Partnership" in Guy Laforest and Roger Gibbins (eds.) _Beyond the Impasse_ Institute for Research on Public Policy, Montreal, 1998, pp. 15-50\. A condensed version of the paper appears in _Policy Options_, (March 1998), pp. 5-8\. [Also published in [French](/publications/translated/french)]
172. "Human Rights and Ethnocultural Justice" in _Review of Constitutional Studies_, Vol. 4/2 (1998), pp. 213-238\. Also published in booklet form as _Human Rights and Ethnocultural Justice: Sixth J.C. Rees Memorial Lecture_ (Dept. of Political Theory and Government, University of Wales, 1998), 26 pp., and reprinted in Mark Evans (ed.) _The Edinburgh Companion to Contemporary Liberalism_ (University of Edinburgh Press, 2001), 33-50\. [Also published in [Spanish](/publications/translated/spanish) and [French](/publications/translated/french)]
173. "Ethnic Associations and Democratic Citizenship" in Amy Gutmann (ed.) _Freedom of Association_ (Princeton University Press, 1998), pp. 177-213\. [Also published in [Italian](/publications/translated/italian)]
174. "Is Federalism an Alternative to Secession?" in Percy Lehning (ed.) _Theories of Secession_ (Routledge, 1998), pp. 111-50\. "Reprinted as "Minority Nationalism and Multination Federalism", in John Kincaid (ed.) _Federalism: Volume III: Models of Individualism, Communalism, and Multinationalism in Federal Governance_ (Sage, 2012), forthcoming, pp. 227-56.[Also published in [Spanish](/publications/translated/spanish)]
175. "Living Together: International Aspects of Federal Systems" in _Canadian Foreign Policy_, Vol. 5/1 (1997), pp. 1-50\. (co-authored with Jean-Robert Raviot). [Also published in [French](/publications/translated/french)]
176. "The Prospects for Citizenship: Domestic and Global" in Thomas Courchene (ed.) _The Nation State in a Global/Information Era_ John Deutsch Institute for the Study of Economic Policy, Queen's University, 1997, pp. 315-25.
177. "Rethinking the Sources of Nationalism: Commentary on Taylor" in Robert McKim and Jeff McMahan (eds.) _The Morality of Nationalism_ (Oxford University Press, 1997), pp. 56-65.
178. "Modernity and Minority Nationalism: Commentary on Thomas Franck" in _Ethics and International Affairs_, Vol. 11, (1997), pp. 171-76.
179. "Do We Need a Liberal Theory of Minority Rights?" in _Constellations_, Vol. 4/1, (1997), pp. 72-87.
180. "Le Sfide del multiculturalismo" in _Il Mulino: revisa bimestrale di cultura e di politica_ #370 (March 1997), pp. 199-217\. An expanded version is reprinted as "Cittadinanza e sfide fel multiculturalismo", in _Inchiesta_, Vol. 28, #120 (1998), pp. 36-43.
181. "Concepts of Community and Social Justice" in Fen Hampson and Judith Reppy (eds.) _Earthly Goods: Environmental Change and Social Justice_ (Cornell University Press, 1996), pp. 30-51.
182. "Démocratie libérale et droits des cultures minoritaires"" in France Gagnon, Marie McAndrew and M. Pagé (eds.) _Pluralisme, citoyenneté et Éducation_ (L'Harmattan, Montreal, 1996), pp. 25-51.
183. "Interpreting Group Rights" in _The Good Society_, Vol. 6, #2, (1996), pp. 8-11.
184. "Minority Group Rights: The Good, The Bad and the Intolerable" in _Dissent_ Summer (1996), pp. 22-30\. Reprinted in John Kromkowski (ed.) _Annual Editions: Race and Ethnic Relations 97/98_ (Duskin Publishing, Guilford, 1997), pp. 88-95; and in Patrick Hayden (ed.) _The Philosophy of Human Rights_ (Paragon House Press, 2001), pp. 445-61; and in Katherine Fierlbeck (ed.) _The Development of Political Thought in Canada: An Anthology_ (Broadview Press, Peterborough, 2005), pp. 295-310; and in C.L. Ten (ed.) _Theories of Rights_ (Ashgate, Aldershot, 2006) pp. 369-78; and in Mark Goodale (ed.) _Human Rights: An Anthropological Reader_ (Wiley-Blackwell, 2008), pp. 58-67; and in Micheline Ishay (ed.) _The Human Rights Reader: Major Political Essays, Speeches, and Documents from the Bible to the Present_, second edition (Routledge, 2007), pp. 418-21.
185. "Three Forms of Group-Differentiated Citizenship in Canada" in Seyla Benhabib (ed.)_Democracy and Difference: Contesting the Boundaries of the Poltical_ (Princeton University Press, 1996), pp. 153-70\. [Also published in [German](/publications/translated/german)]
186. "Derechos individuales y derechos de grupo en la democracia liberal" in _Isegoria: Revista de Filosofía Moral y Política_, Vol. 14, (1996), pp. 5-36.
187. "Social Unity in a Liberal State" in _Social Philosophy and Policy_, Vol. 13/1, (1996), pp. 105-36\. Also published in book form as Ellen Frankel Paul et al (eds.) _The Communitarian Challenge to Liberalism_ (Cambridge University Press, 1996). Translated into [Chinese](/publications/translated/chinese).
188. "Expanding the Social Contract" in _Etica & Animali_, Vol. 8, (1996), pp. 5-32\. (co-authored with Paola Cavalieri).
189. "Federalismus a multiculturalismis v Kanade" in _Mezinárodní Politika_, Vol. 19, #7 (1995), pp.15-18 [in [Czech](/publications/translated/czech)].
190. "Return of the Citizen: A Survey of Recent Work on Citizenship Theory" in _Ethics_, Vol. 104/2, (1994), pp. 352-81 (co-authored with W.J. Norman). Reprinted in Ronald Beiner (ed.) _Theorizing Citizenship_ (State University of New York Press, 1995) pp. 283-322\. Reprinted in Richard Bellamy and Antonino Palumbo (eds.) _Citizenship_ (Ashgate, 2010), pp. 43-72\. Excerpted in Ricardo Blaug and John Schwarzmantel (eds.) _Democracy: A Reader_ (Edinburgh University Press, 2000), pp. 220-7; and in Logan Atkinson et al (eds.) Introduction to Legal Studies, 3rd (Captus Press, North York, 2001), pp. 95-101\. A condensed version is reprinted in Frank Ackerman et al (eds.) _Human Well-Being and Economic Goals_ (Island Press, Covelo, 1997). [Also translated into [Spanish](/publications/translated/spanish), [Swedish](/publications/translated/swedish) and [Chinese](/publications/translated/chinese)]
191. "Individual and Community Rights" in Judith Baker (ed.) _Group Rights_ (University of Toronto Press, 1994), pp. 17-33.
192. "Reforming our Political Discourse: The National Interest in a Transnational World" in _Constitutional Forum_, Vol. 5/3, (1994), pp. 49-53 (co-authored with Donald Lenihan).
193. "Whither the Nation-State? Finding a Niche in the Global Village" in _Policy Options_, Vol. 15/6, (1994), pp. 11-14 (co-authored with Donald Lenihan).
194. "Community" in R. Goodin and P. Pettit (eds.) _A Companion to Contemporary Political Philosophy_ (Blackwell, 1993), pp. 366-78\. An updated and expanded version has been published as "Community and Multiculturalism" in Robert Goodin, Phillip Pettit and Thomas Pogge (eds.) _Companion to Contemporary Political Philosophy: Second Edition_ (Blackwell, 2007), Volume 2: 463-77\. [Also published in [French](/publications/translated/french)]
195. "Group Representation in Canadian Politics" in Leslie Seidle (ed.) _Equity and Community: The Charter, Interest Advocacy, and Representation_ (Institute for Research on Public Policy, Montreal, 1993) pp. 61-89.
196. "Reply to Modood" in _Analyse & Kritik_, Vol. 15/1, (1993), pp. 92-96.
197. "Some Questions about Justice and Community" in Daniel Bell (ed.) _Communitarianism and its Critics_ (Oxford University Press, 1993), pp. 208-21.
198. "Moral Philosophy and Public Policy: The Case of New Reproductive Technologies" in _Bioethics_, Vol. 7/1, (1993), pp. 1-26\. Reprinted in L.W. Sumner and Joseph Boyle (eds.) _Philosophical Perspectives on Bioethics_ (University of Toronto Press, 1996), pp. 244-70, and in _Bioethics in Canada_, Charles Weijer, Anthony Skelton, and Samantha Brennan (eds.) (Oxford University Press, 2013). [Also published in [German](/publications/translated/german)]
199. "The Rights of Minority Cultures: Reply to Kukathas" in _Political Theory_, Vol. 20/1, (1992), pp. 140-6.
200. "Two Models of Pluralism and Tolerance" in _Analyse & Kritik_, Vol. 14/1, (1992), pp. 33-56\. Reprinted in David Heyd (ed.) _Toleration: An Elusive Virtue_ (Princeton University Press, 1996), pp. 81-105, and in Mitja Sardoč (ed) _The Palgrave Handbook of Toleration_ (Palgrave Macmillan, Cham, 2021) . Translated into [Persian](/publications/translated/persian)
201. "The Social Contract Tradition" in P. Singer (ed.) _A Companion to Ethics_ (Blackwell, 1991) pp. 186-96\. [Also published in [Chinese](/publications/translated/chinese)]
202. "Liberalism and the Politicization of Ethnicity" in _Canadian Journal of Law and Jurisprudence_, Vol. 4/2, (1991), pp. 239-56\. Reprinted in Julia Stapleton (ed.) _Group Rights: Perspectives Since 1900_ (Thoemmes Press, Bristol, 1995), pp. 233-57\. [Also published in [French](/publications/translated/french) and [Persian](/publications/translated/persian)].
203. "Liberal Individualism and Liberal Neutrality" in _Ethics_, Vol. 99/4, (1989), pp. 883-905\. Reprinted in J. Sterba (ed.) _Justice: Alternative Political Perspectives_, 2nd Edition (Wadsworth, 1992), and in S. Avineri and S. De-Shalit (eds.) _Communitarianism and Individualism_ (Oxford University Press, 1992), pp. 165-85; and in Henry Richardson and Paul Weithman (eds.) _Reasonable Pluralism: The Philosophy of Rawls 5_ (Garland, 1999); and in Robin West (ed.) _Rights_ (Ashgate, 2001), pp. 387-409; and in G.W. Smith (ed.) _Liberalism: Critical Assessments_ (Routledge, 2002); and in David Reidy (ed.) _John Rawls_ (Ashgate Publishing, 2008). Excerpted in Colin Farrelly (ed.) _Contemporary Political Theory: A Reader_ (Sage, 2004), pp. 126-33\. Reprinted in David Reidy (ed.) _John Rawls_ (Ashgate Publishing, 2008), pp. 235-258.
204. "Liberalism, Individualism, and Minority Rights" in A Hutchinson and L. Green (eds.) _Law and the Community_ (Carswell, 1989), pp. 181-204.
205. "Liberalism and Communitarianism" in _Canadian Journal of Philosophy_, Vol. 18/2, 1988, pp. 181-203\. Reprinted in _The Philosopher's Annual_, Vol. 11, (1988), pp. 87-109, and in ed. R. Arneson _Liberalism_, Volume 3 (Edward Elgar Publishing, 1992).
206. "Human Nature and Social Change in the Marxist Conception of History" in _Journal of Philosophy_, Vol. 85/4, (1988), pp. 171-91 (co-authored with G.A. Cohen). Reprinted in _G.A. Cohen, History, Labour and Freedom: Themes from Marx_ (Oxford University Press, 1989), pp. 83-106.
207. "Rawls on Teleology and Deontology" in _Philosophy & Public Affairs_, Vol. 17/3, (1988), pp. 173-90.
