# Postdoctoral Fellowship in Animal Studies

The Department of Philosophy at Queen's University invites applications for its annual Postdoctoral Fellowship in Animal Studies program. This is a two-year non-renewable fellowship. The successful applicant will have a demonstrated expertise in animal ethics, law and public policy, show evidence of teaching potential, and be able to participate constructively in departmental and collegial activities.

While we interpret animal ethics, law and public policy broadly, and welcome applications from various disciplines that study human-animal relations including political science, law, philosophy, sociology, geography, and environmental studies, we are looking in particular for research that critically examines the moral, legal and political dimensions of how human-animal relations are governed. A recipient of the Fellowship is expected to expected to be actively involved in the day-to-day life of the Department, to teach a University course in animal ethics each year, to participate in the activities of our [animal studies research group](http://animalpolitics.queensu.ca/), and to help organize a workshop or conference in the field. The Fellow will work under the supervision of Prof. Will Kymlicka.

The 2020-22 fellowship will start on July 1, 2020\. Applicants must have submitted their doctoral dissertation by that date, and must be within five years of having received their doctorate. The salary for the postdoctoral fellowship will be $45,000 per year, which includes remuneration for teaching a half-course in animal ethics or a cognate subject. Applications are due by February 14th, 2020\. For more information, visit [Queen's Philosophy - Jobs](https://www.queensu.ca/philosophy/jobs) or contact [Prof. Kymlicka](mailto:kymlicka@queensu.ca).
