# Citizenship, Democracy and Ethnocultural Diversity Newsletter, No. 57, September 2010

## _Queen's Forum for Philosophy and Public Policy_

### Contents

- [1\. Introduction](#1-introduction)
- [2\. Upcoming Conferences](#2-upcoming-conferences)
- [3\. Recent Publications](#3-recent-publications)
  - [Journal Special Issues](#journal-special-issues)
- [4\. Call for Papers and New Journals](#4-call-for-papers-and-new-journals)
- [5\. Fellowships and Courses](#5-fellowships-and-courses)
- [6\. Related Research Projects](#6-related-research-projects)
- [7\. Internet Resources](#7-internet-resources)

#### 1\. Introduction

The Forum for Philosophy and Public Policy at Queen's University is organizing a multi-year, research project on citizenship, democracy and minority rights in multiethnic states, under the direction of Prof. Will Kymlicka. As part of this project, the Forum distributes a quarterly newsletter updating recent developments in the field, of which this is the fifty-seventh issue. We hope that it will be of interest to anyone working in the field, whether in academia, public service, or non-governmental organizations.

If you would like to be added to the mailing list for this newsletter, please contact us at <cded@queensu.ca>. Back-issues of the newsletter are posted on the Web on Will Kymlicka's home-page: <http://www.queensu.ca/cded/news.html>

#### 2\. Upcoming Conferences

The first International Cities of Migration Conference will be on the theme "Migration to Integration: An Opportunity Agenda for Cities", in The Hague, (Netherlands), October 3 - 4, 2010\. It will include debates, plenaries, a marketplace of leading ideas and a townhall discussion to inspire renewed urban leadership and new thinking on migration. For more information, see <http://conference.citiesofmigration.ca/>. This conference precedes the 15th International Metropolis Conference on the theme "Justice and Migration: Paradoxes of Belonging", also in The Hague, from October 4¬8 , 2010\. Additional information can be found on the conference website: <http://www.metropolis2010.org/>

The 2010 Annual Symposium of the Royal Society of Canada is on the theme "Immigrating to Canada: Who comes? Who stays? Who decides?". It will be held at the Canadian Museum of Civilization in Ottawa on Friday, October 15, 2010\. For more details, visit the website at <http://www.cvent.com/EVENTS/Info/Summary.aspx?e=478db819-fde5-4746-b14a-583a8fdd50ee>

The Ethnic Politics Workshop will be held October 15-16, 2010, at The George Washington University (GW) in Washington. The conveners seek to promote new approaches to the study of ethnic politics in the social sciences by bringing together a small interdisciplinary group of social scientists to exchange ideas, brainstorm, and provide constructive criticism of each other's works in progress. For more information, see <http://www.mladiinfo.com/2010/08/03/ethnic-politics-workshop-washington-dc/>

The Forum for Development Cooperation with Indigenous Peoples at the University of Tromso (Norway) is hosting its 2010 Forum Conference on the theme "Indigenous Participation in Policy-making: Ideals, Realities and Possibilities" on October 25-26, 2010\. Conference languages will be English, Spanish and Sami. For more information, visit <http://www.sami.uit.no/forum/>

There will be a workshop on migration politics and citizenship (Políticas migratorias, justicia y ciudadanía) at the Instituto de Filosofía of the Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científica in Madrid, Spain on 27-29 October 2010\. For more information, visit <http://www.proyectos.cchs.csic.es/politicas-migratorias/content/iii-jornadas-sobre-pol%C3%ADticas-migratorias>

The American Indian Program at Cornell University, in conjunction with South Atlantic Quarterly, is hosting a two-day conference on "Sovereignty, Indigeneity, and the Law" on October 29-30, 2010\. For more information, visit <http://aip.cornell.edu/silconference.cfm>

There will be a conference on "Multilevel Citizenship" on October 29, 2010 at Glendon College, York University (Toronto, Canada). Citizenship in contemporary societies has come to be defined as a relatively homogeneous legal and political status within the context of a state. The focus on (nation-)state citizenship obscures important developments at both sub- and suprastate levels. The aim of this workshop is to stimulate debate on the concept of multilevel citizenship, focusing on its contemporary relevance and its implications for the future of citizenship. For more information on the conference, please contact Prof. Maas at <maas@yorku.ca>

There will be a conference on "Citizenship: the Self and Political Agency" on 5-6 November 2010 at Cambridge University (UK), organized by the Centre for Research in the Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities (CRASSH), and convened by Dr Sian Lazar (Anthropology, Cambridge) and Dr Monique Nuijten (Social Sciences, Wageningen). This conference aims to explore the potential of the recent flourishing of anthropological work on citizenship, both in its own right and as a contribution to political, sociological and philosophical discussions of the concept. Further information, speakers, programme and registration available at: <http://www.crassh.cam.ac.uk/events/1239/>

The Association for Canadian Studies and the Canadian Ethnic Studies Association are hosting a Joint Annual Conference on "Ethnicity, Governance, and Social Justice: Linking Canada to the World" on November 5-6, 2010 in Toronto. The conference will be relevant to a wide range of people interested in ethnicity, race, immigration, multiculturalism, and related diversity issues in Canada, particularly as they intersect with issues of social justice and governance. For more information please visit <http://www.acs-aec.ca/index.php?option=com_events&task=events&xlang=English&eventid=69>

The EUROSPHERE project's third international conference will take place in Brussels on 11-12 November 2010 on the theme "The Publics of Europe and the European Public Sphere: Tracing the Architects and Trespassers of Borders and Boundaries in Europe". In the conference, EUROSPHERE researchers will provide perspectives and empirical findings about the increasing interconnectedness between different types of publics and public spaces, their discursive orientations, the new ways of transnational political communication and collaboration in Europe, and their consequences for individuals, groups, publics, and diversity. More information can be found at [http://eurospheres.org](http://eurospheres.org/).

There will be a workshop on "Minority and Indigenous Rights: Emerging Themes and Challenges", organized by the Network on Minority Groups and Human Rights and the Institute of Commonwealth Studies on 18-19 November 2010 in London, UK. The Network on Minority Groups and Human Rights (MRN) was established in May 2009 to provide a specialist interdisciplinary forum for scholars working in the area of minority and indigenous rights to meet and discuss new developments, focusing in particular on the development of links between early career and more established researchers working in this area. The second MRN workshop will reassess the links between different human rights instruments addressing minority and indigenous issues and different approaches to the 'internationalisation' of State-minority relations. For more information, visit the conference website: <http://commonwealth.sas.ac.uk/events/conferences/mir.html>

The Forum of Federations, in collaboration with the Committee of the Regions (European Union), is sponsoring a comparative conference in Brussels on 29-30 November 2010 on the theme Immigrant Integration: the Impact of Federalism on Public Policy. The conference is part of a Forum of Federations project on the impact of federalism on immigrant integration (laws, policies and programs) in seven countries: Canada, the United States, Australia, Germany, Belgium, Switzerland and Spain. Particular attention is being paid to developments and debates during the past 10 years or so that were marked by differences of view and/or approach between the federal and subnational governments (including local government). There is no fee to attend the conference, but registration is required. For further information about the conference, including the program, see <http://www.forumfed.org/en/events/event.php?id=618>

The 2010 Piet Akkermans Lecture and the 2010 Bruges Conference on "Religion, Beliefs, Philosophical Convictions and Education: From Passive Toleration to Active Appreciation of Religious Differences" will be held on 7-9 December 2010 in Bruges, Belgium. For more information including relevant documents and registration forms go to <http://www.lawandeducation.com/>

The iGov-Institutions and Governance Program of the University of California, Berkeley and the Robert Schuman Center of the European University Institute are funding a series of papers on Islam and Religious Norms in the Public Sphere. The papers will be presented during 2 workshops (one in Florence and one in Berkeley, on December 16th-17th 2010 and June 2011) and will be published as working papers on the network website together with policy briefs. This is a call for proposals for papers. For more information, please visit our website at <http://www.igovberkeley.com/content/religious-norms-public-sphere-network-rps-2010>

There will be an International Conference on 27-28 January 2011 at the University of Amsterdam on "Sexual Nationalisms: Gender, Sexuality and the Politics of Belonging in the New Europe". Since 1989, and even more so after 9/11, the rise of new nationalisms has been inextricably linked to a refashioning of the politics, identities and imaginaries of gender and sexuality in Europe. The old virile nationalism is now being reinvented in the light of a new brand of sexual politics. Feminist demands and claims of (homo)sexual liberation have moved from the counter-cultural margins to the heart of many European countries' national imaginations, and have become a central factor in the European Union's production of itself as an imaginary community. How are these shifts in the cultural and social location of sexuality and gender to be understood? Abstracts as well as questions can be sent to: Robert Davidson (<R.J.Davidson@uva.nl>).

The Centre for Canadian Studies at Mount Allison University invites proposals for its 2011 conference, "People and Politics: Interactions Between Citizens and the Canadian State" to be held on March 3-5, 2011\. This interdisciplinary conference seeks to explore the various ways that individuals and groups influence governments and the state and the means by which political decisions affect the everyday lives of Canadians. Potential themes include, but are not limited, to: political communications, historical interactions between citizens and the state, interest groups and lobbying, social and political diversity, alternative politics and social movements, federal, provincial, and municipal politics, representation of citizens and/or the state, the present and future of Canadian political relations. Please submit a 250-word proposal with a listing of up to 5 keywords to describe your proposed presentation to: <politicsconference@mta.ca>. All submissions must be received by November 12, 2010.

The 13th National Metropolis Conference will be on the theme "Immigration: Bringing the World to Canada" on March 23-26, 2011 in Vancouver. For more information, visit the conference web site at <http://www.metropolis2011.net/welcome> Deadline for submissions is October 30, 2010.

The Centre for Governance and Citizenship (CGC) of the Hong Kong Institute of Education (HKIEd) is organizing an international conference on "Governance and Citizenship in Asia: Paradigms and Practices" on 18-19 March 2011 in Hong Kong. The conference will explore the links between the domains of Governance and Citizenship. Citizenship and participation have emerged as central issues in recent public management debates. They follow, and are a part of, the larger debate on "Good Governance". However, little systematic effort has been made to define the concepts and delineate the links between the two domains of Governance and Citizenship. It is simply assumed that the concepts, and the values and arrangements they embody, are axiomatic and universal. It is time the two concepts be subjected to closer scrutiny and the relationships between them specified. For more details, visit <http://www.ied.edu.hk/cgc/view.php?m=767&secid=875>

There will be a conference on "Outsiders in Europe. The Foreigner and the 'Other' in the Process of Changing Rules and Identities" (<http://www.ulb.ac.be/socio/germe/documentsenligne/MAMfull.pdf>) at the Université Libre de Bruxelles on April 28- 29 2011\. In this project legal scholars, sociologists, political scientists, anthropologists and social psychologists examine shifts in the definition of 'otherness' in immigrant integration policy making in Europe. The key note speakers will be John Berry, David B. Oppenheimer, Bernd Simon, Christian Joppke, Kees Groenendijk, Ruud Koopmans, Virginie Guiraudon, Saskia Bonjour, François Crépeau.

The Center for the Study of Citizenship at Wayne State University in Detroit will host its 8th Annual Conference on Citizenship Studies on the theme "Bodies", to take place from March 31st to April 2nd 2011\. Citizenship is about defining which bodies matter and what or who should govern them, either informally or formally. Classical understandings of the dimensions of citizenship rights, responsibilities, and dependency reflect a variety of contexts in which ideas about bodies and realities of the biological are themselves rooted. Thus, citizenship is often connected to larger questions and assumptions about where you are born (birth rights), where you have a right to live (immigration and transnationality), and your age and what that means in terms of what you are allowed or expected to do (voting, military service, work). It also encompasses what expectations individuals have for what citizenship will provide them (the welfare state, dependency in the post-neoliberal age, resources food/water/air, free and unrestricted access to information). Incorporating, but also moving beyond the traditional focus of the biopolitical nature of citizenship, this conference encourages participants to focus on the historical, political, economic, social, and cultural dimensions at the intersection of bodies and citizenship. For more information, or to submit proposals visit the Center's website: <http://www.clas.wayne.edu/citizenship>. Questions should be directed to Marc W. Kruman (<aa1277@wayne.edu>).

#### 3\. Recent Publications

Books (prices in US\$)

- Jens Alber and Neil Gilbert (2009) United in Diversity?: Comparing Social Models in Europe and America (Oxford University Press), \$47.50.
- Rainer Bauböck and Thomas Faist (eds) (2010) Diaspora and Transnationalism. Concepts, theories and methods. (Amsterdam University Press). \$59.50
- Nigel Biggar and Linda Hogan (eds.) (2009) Religious Voices in Public Places (Oxford University Press), \$104.
- Brad Blitz and Maureen Lynch (2011) Statelessness and Citizenship: A Comparative Study of the Benefits of Nationality (Elgar), \$105.
- Eugene Borgida, Christopher Federico, and John Sullivan (eds.) (2009) The Political Psychology of Democratic Citizenship (Oxford University Press), \$44.
- Kathleen M. Coll (2010) Remaking Citizenship: Latina Immigrants and New American Politics (Standford University Press), \$20.65.
- Daniel Levy and Natan Sznaider (2010) Human Rights and Memory (Penn State University Press), \$44.20.
- Andrew Markus and Moshe Semyonov (eds.) Immigration and Nation Building: Australia and Israel compared (Elgar), \$105.
- Tariq Modood (2010) Still Not Easy Being British: Struggles for a Multicultural Citizenship (Trentham Books), \$27.84.
- Brendan Hokowhitu et al (eds.) (2010) Indigenous Identity and Resistance: Researching the Diversity of Knowledge (Otago University Press), \$44.95.
- Yoav Peled et al (Eds) (2010) Democratic Citizenship and War (Routledge) \$125.
- Mark Rifkin (2009) Manifesting America: The Imperial Construction of U.S. National Space (Oxford University Press), \$52.
- Debra Satz and Rob Reich (eds.) (2009) Toward a Humanist Justice: The Political Philosophy of Susan Okin (OUP, 2009), \$85.
- Sarah Scuzzarello, Catarine Kinnvall, and Kristen R. Monroe (eds.) (2009) On Behalf of Others: The Psychology of Care in a Global World (Oxford University Press), \$49.50.
- Kirsten Shoraka (2010) Human Rights and Minority Rights in the European Union (Routledge, London), \$110.56.
- Vivienne Wee (2010) Political Fragmentation in Southeast Asia: Alternative Nations in the Making (Routledge).
- Charles Westin et al (2010) Identity Processes and Dynamics in Multi-Ethnic Europe (Amsterdam University Press) \$69.95
- Amanda Wise and Selvaraj Velayutham (eds.) (2009) Everyday Multiculturalism (Palgrave), \$85.
- Policies and practices for teaching sociocultural diversity - A framework of teacher competences for engaging with diversity (Council of Europe, 2010), \$76

##### Journal Special Issues

The Journal of Social Philosophy (Vol. 41 No. 3, Fall 2010) contains a special issue titled "Thinking in Race Theory". It is edited by Paul C. Taylor and Ronald Robles Sundstorm and includes contributions by Julie L. Shulman, Joshua Glasgow, Michael Root, Ron Mallon, Daniel Kelly, Luc Faucher, Edouard Machery, and Samantha Vice.

The Journal of Ethnic and Racial Studies (Volume 33, Issue 7, 2010) has a special issue focusing on Assimilation and Integration Theory. It includes articles by Jens Schneider, Maurice Crul, Alex Stepick, Carol Dutton Stepick, Mary C. Waters, Van C. Tran, Philip Kasinitz, John H. Mollenkopf, Miri Song, Hans Vermeulen, and Michael Eve.

The International Journal of Constitutional Law (January 2010, Vol. 8 No. 1) includes a special symposium on citizenship. It includes articles by Cheryl Saunders, Sujit Choudhry, Linda Bosniak, Christina M. Rodrguez, Anja Lansbergen, Jo Shaw, Enik Horvath, Ruth Rubio-Marin, Jonathan Klaaren, and Peter J. Spiro.

African Diaspora (Volume 3 No. 1 January 2010) contains a symposium on "The Moral Economy of the African Diaspora: Citizenship, Networking and Permeable Ethnicity", guest edited by Mattia Fumanti and Pnina Werbner. It includes articles by Rijk van Dijk, Galia Sabar, Jane Parish, JoAnn D'Alisera, Claire Mercer, Ben Page, and Nicole Gregoire.

IJMS (now Diversities) (Vol 11, No. 2 2010) is a special issue focusing on Turks Abroad: Settlers, Citizens, Transnationals, and is guest edited by Christine Inglis, Samim Akgönül and Stéphane de Tapia. It includes articles by Kemal Kirisci, Michael Humphrey, Sergei V. Ryazantsev, Joel Windle, Maurice Crul, Jens Schneider, Liza Hopkins, and Banu Senay.

Interventions: International Journal of Postcolonial Studies (Volume 12, Issue 2, 2010) contains a special issue titled 'Muslims in the Frame'. It is guest edited by Peter Morey and Amina Yaqin. This special issue focuses on the contemporary representation of Muslims, exploring the contemporary landscape coloured by concerns about national identity, integration and security, in which Muslims constitute an object of study and, increasingly, answer back to misinformation and stereotypes in a process of self-framing.

There is a special issue of Citizenship Studies (Vol. 14/3, 2010) on "Cultural citizenship in Political Theory". It is guest-edited by Judith Vega and Pieter van Hensbroek and also includes articles by Nick Stevenson, Gijs van Oenen, Rene Boomkens, and Davina Bhandar.

#### 4\. Call for Papers and New Journals

The journal The Monist has issued a call for appers on "Dilemmas of Multiculturalism", guest-edited by H. E. Baber, University of San Diego (<baber@sandiego.edu>). History shows that cultural diversity can enrich societies and lead to great flowerings of creativity and prosperity - but that it can also threaten social cohesion. This issue of The Monist is concerned with the dilemmas that arise when, for example, the cultural norms of minority communities conflict with the norms of the larger society. To what extent are liberal democracies obliged to accommodate illiberal communities whose policies and practices constrain the options of their members? Is multiculturalism bad for women insofar as traditional cultures promote practices and prescribe roles for women that are, by Western standards, restrictive or oppressive? Is there a conflict of interest between cultural preservationists and those individuals who would prefer to assimilate into the wider culture? Do individuals in minority communities have an obligation to identify with ancestral cultures? Contributors are invited to address these and related questions posed by multiculturalism. For more information, visit <http://monist.buffalo.edu/callsforpapers.html#Multiculturalism>

The journal Education Citizenship and Social Justice will publish a special issue entitled Education, Human Rights and Social Justice in East Asia, to be edited by Audrey Osler and Yan Wing Leung. The editors have issued a call for papers, inviting submissions by 30 November 2010\. For more information, contact Audrey Osler at <A.H.Osler@leeds.ac.uk>.

The Max Planck Institute for the Study of Religious and Ethnic Diversity announces the launch of a new journal, DIVERSITIES, a combined effort with UNESCO's social sciences research and policy division. DIVERSITIES is an on-line journal publishing high quality, peer-reviewed articles concerning multiple forms of diversity. It carries on the work of its predecessor, The International Journal for the Study of Multicultural Societies (IJMS). DIVERSITIES presents new research on different kinds of social difference - including ethnicity, religion, language, gender, sexuality, disability, social status and age: how these notions are socially constructed, how they unfold in different contexts and how they are addressed in policy and practice. The journal provides a forum for discussion, debate, refinement of social theory and development of key ideas at the nexus of research and policy. Topics and contributors represent a range of global regions. Scholars interested in pursuing publication in the journal can write to the editors at diversities(at)[mmg.mpg.de](http://mmg.mpg.de/), or visit the website at: <http://www.unesco.org/shs/diversities>.

#### 5\. Fellowships and Courses

The Centre for Citizenship and Public Policy, in Sydney, Australia has begun to offer a four year PhD in Political and Social Thought. In the first year candidates take four compulsory seminar-style courses, led by such academics as Anna Yeatman, Katherine Gibson, Nikolas Kompridis, Jack Barbalet, Lyn Carson and Tim Rowse. Generous scholarships are available to Domestic and International students. For profiles of the academics, information about 2011 units and procedures for application, visit our website at <http://www.uws.edu.au/ccpp>.

The three-year English-taught Joint PhD Programme in Diversity Management and Governance offers specialized interdisciplinary and comparative academic training in the study of various forms of diversity, be it ethnic, cultural, linguistic, regional, religious, social or sexual, and its management. Conflict prevention and management theories, reconstruction and reconciliation of divided societies after violent conflicts and political tensions, integration policies and the establishment of good governance throughout Europe are in focus in this Joint PhD Programme. Partner Universities are University of Graz (Austria), University of Primorska (Slovenia), New Bulgarian University (Bulgaria), and University of Bologna (Italy). Students have to spend at least one academic year at one of the partner universities. Further information and application form available at: <http://www.jointdegree.eu/phd> or by contacting Ms Elisabeth Mueller at <elisabeth.mueller@uni-graz.at>.

#### 6\. Related Research Projects

"Oecumene: Citizenship after Orientalism" is a new research project, led by Professor Engin Isin at the Centre for Citizenship, Identities and Goveranance (CCIG) at the Open University, and funded by the European Research Council. The project focuses on the interaction between two controversial and contested concepts: citizenship – the process by which belonging is recognised and enacted – and orientalism – the assertion of the superiority of western culture over its eastern counterparts. The purpose of the research programmes is to redefine European citizenship by developing, without the assumptions of orientalism and occidentalism, comparative insights on citizenship understood as political subjectivity in Asias, Africas, Australias or Americas. For more information, visit: <http://www.open.ac.uk/ccig/about/projects/oecumene-citizenship-after-orientalism>

The Western Political Science Association has created a new Section on "(Im)migration and Citizenship". The last four decades have witnessed a dramatic increase in international migration throughout the world, raising important political questions in many countries. Political science remains one of the few social sciences without an explicit and organized focus on these phenomena, examined from different subfields within the discipline (e.g., political theory, public law, public policy, racial and ethnic politics, comparative politics, and more). This new section seeks to highlight a shared scholarly concern with this increasingly important subject, albeit from various disciplinary, theoretical, and methodological approaches, by bringing these papers into focus under one organizational roof. For more information, contact Ron Schmidt, California State Long Beach: <rschmidt@csulb.edu> or Dvora Yanow, Vrije Universiteit (Amsterdam): <d.yanow@fsw.vu.nl>

The Centre for Governance and Citizenship (CGC) of the Hong Kong Institute of Education publishes a CGC Working Paper Series, discussing issues pertinent to governance and citizenship. The first 2 issues of the 2010 Series of the CGC Working Paper are entitled "Schools Fit for Children: Children's Rights" and "Schooling and Education for Cosmopolitan Citizenship? A Challenge for the Nation-state", written by Professor Audrey Osler. For more information about the CGC and the Working Paper Series, please visit our website at <http://www.ied.edu.hk/cgc/view.php?secid=900>.

ECRML Language Guides are now available on the European Centre for Minority Issues webpage <http://www.ecmiserver.de/lcd/ecrml/>. ECMI is hosting these language guides in cooperation with the Council of Europe. The European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages (ECRML) is the only convention in the world devoted to the protection and promotion of languages used by traditional national and ethnic minorities. The language guides were conceived to provide NGOs with an overview of the provisions applying to languages covered by the Charter and to structure and intensify the dialogue between the minority language speakers/their NGOs and the authorities of the states concerned.

Accept Pluralism is a new project (2010-2013), funded by the European Commission under the Seventh Framework Programme and coordinated by Anna Triandafyllidou (EUI). The ACCEPT project questions whether European societies have become more or less tolerant recently, what tolerance means in different countries but also in the same country under different circumstances, for different issues and with regard to different minority groups (immigrant or native). These questions are considered by looking at the challenges that cultural diversity brings in the development and implementation of public policy in the field of education (Case study 1) and regarding political participation and representation of minority groups (Case study 2). Further details are available at: <http://www.accept-pluralism.eu/Home.aspx>

#### 7\. Internet Resources

The Association for the Study of Nationalities and Nationalities Papers have recently established the Nationalities Blog. The blog provides a space for commentary, analysis and debate on nationalism, ethnicity and national identity around the world. In addition to contributions on current events (there are comments up on the ethnic violence in Osh, Kyrgyzstan by Julia George, Harris Mylonas, Scott Radnitz and Asel Doolotkeldieva, elections in Belgium by Peter Vermeersch and the Hungarian citizenship law Stephen Deets), readers can comment and discuss articles published in Nationalities Papers. To read the blog go to <http://nationalities.wordpress.com/>. If you are interested in contributing posts, contact Florian Bieber (<bieberf@gmx.net>) or Peter Vermeersch (<Peter.Vermeersch@soc.kuleuven.be>). Comments and contributions to the debate are always welcome.

---

### Announcements

If you would like to announce a new research project, publication, call for papers, or upcoming conference in a future issue of this newsletter, please contact us at <cded@post.queensu.ca>, or you can write to the Forum for Philosophy and Public Policy, Department of Philosophy, Queen's University, Watson Hall 313, Kingston Ontario K7L 3N6, Canada. Fax: 613-533-6545.

Special thanks to Octavian Busuioc for research help, and to Lise Charlebois for help with the distribution of the newsletter.
