# Citizenship, Democracy and Ethnocultural Diversity

## _Newsletter of the Canadian Centre for Philosophy and Public Policy_

## _No. 3, Spring 1996_

---

### Contents

- [1\. Introduction](#1-introduction)
- [2\. Upcoming Conferences](#2-upcoming-conferences)
- [3\. Internet Resources](#3-internet-resources)
- [4\. Recent Publications](#4-recent-publications)
- [5\. Related Research Programs](#5-related-research-programs)

#### 1\. Introduction

The Canadian Centre for Philosophy and Public Policy (CCPPP) at the University of Ottawa is organizing a multi-year, inter-disciplinary research project on "Citizenship, Identity and Democracy in the Multiethnic State", under the direction of Prof. Will Kymlicka. As part of this project, the CCPPP will distribute a quarterly newsletter updating recent developments in the field, of which this is the third issue. We hope that it will be of interest to anyone working in the field, whether in academia, in the public service, or in various non-governmental organizations. If you know anyone who would like to be added to the mailing list for this newsletter, please contact us at <cded@post.queensu.ca>.

For further information about the research project, or the CCPPP more generally, you can also reach us by phone (613 545-2182) and fax (613 545-6545).

#### 2\. Upcoming Conferences

- The American Section of the International Association of Law and Social Philosophy (AMINTAPHIL) is holding its biennial conference from October 31-November 2 1996 at the University of Kentucky in Lexington Kentucky on the topic of "Groups, Justice and Democratic Institutions". Proposals for papers are welcome. Sessions will be organized around the broad topics of "Justice and Democratic Institutions" and "Democracy and Group Rights", as well as more specific sessions on immigration, secession, representation, education and minority rights. A selection of the best papers will be published. For information on submitting papers to the conference, and/or on membership in AMINTAPHIL, please contact Robert Moffat, Executive Director, AMINTAPHIL, College of Law, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida. E-mail: <moffat@law.ufl.edu>
- The Department of Philosophy at the Universite de Montreal, in conjunction with several European and African universities, is organizing a conference on "Multiculturalism, Liberal Democracy and Human Diversity" in Montreal on November 3-5, 1996\. For more information, contact Marie-Claude Malbeouf, conference coordinator, Departement de philosophie, Universite de Montreal, CP 6128, succursale Centre-Ville, Montreal, H3C 3J7 Canada. Fax: 514-343-7899; E-mail: <malboeum@ere.umontreal.ca>
- The Humanities Research Centre (HRC) and the Research School of Social Sciences (RSSS) of the Australian National University are organizing a major international conference on "Indigenous Rights, Political Theory, and the Reshaping of Institutions", to be held at the ANU in Canberra in August 1997\. Themes will include "theories of rights, justice and citizenship in light of indigenous peoples' claims, as well as more general concerns to do with theories of the state, sovereignty, self-government, the rule of law, and the politics of difference". For information, contact Paul Patton, Philosophy, RSSS, Australian National University, Canberra ACT 0200 (e-mail: <paul.patton@philosophy.su.edu.au>) or Duncan Ivison (e-mail: dmi1@mailer.yorku.ac.uk).
- The 1996 Critical Legal Conference will be on the topic of "Other Justices: Others' Justice" from September 6-8 1996, at the University of East London. The conference will focus on several themes connected to the question of the Other and its relation to Law, and has put out a call for papers, particularly on issues relating to "Citizens and Others: Exclusion, Assimiliation and the Fate of Minorities". For information, contact Bill Bowring, School of Law, University of East London, Longbridge Road, Essex RM8 2A S U.K. Fax: 44-181-5995122; E-mail: <w.s.b.bowring@uel.ac.uk>
- The Communitarian Network is a non-partisan coalition of individuals and organizations who "have come together to shore up the moral, social and political environment", and who "strive for a balance between individual rights and social responsibilities". The Network is conducting an international meeting on July 12-14, 1996 at the University of Geneva in Switzerland on the topic of "Communitarian Thinking and Policies". For information, contact the The Communitarian Network, 2130 H Street NW, Suite 714J, Washington, DC 20052 USA. Fax: 202-994-1606\. The Network has a web-site at: <http://www.gwu.edu/~ccps>
- The Australian Key Centre for Cultural and Media Policy is holding its inaugural conference on "Culture and Citizenship", from September 30 to October 2 1996, in Brisbane. It will focus on two quesitons: What is the relationship between citizenship, culture and government? and What role should media, arts and culture play in shaping citizenship? Proposals and inquiries should be directed to the Manager, Australian Key Centre for Cultural and Media Policy, Faculty of Humanities, Griffith University, Nathan 4111 Australia. Fax: 73-8755511; E-mail: <b.jeppesen@hum.gu.edu.au>
- The second international conference of the Radical Philosophy Association will be held from November 14-17 1996 at Purdue University on the theme of "Globalization from Below", and will include sessions on philosophical issues relating to identity politics, migration, minority rights and social movements more generally. For more information, contact Professors Lewis Gordon, Leonard Harris or William McBride, Department of Philosophy, Purdue University, West Lafayette Indiana 47907 USA.

#### 3\. Internet Resources

One of the most lively topics in American political discourse - at both the academic level and in popular debates - concerns the need to revitalize citizenship. There are now several internet sites which are focused on this issue. We have chosen three which might be of particular interest.

1. The Walt Whitman Center for the Culture and Politics of Democracy <http://cpn.journalism.wisc.edu/cpn/sections/affiliates/whitman_center.html> This is the homepage for the Walt Whitman Center for the Culture and Politics of Democracy. The Center is dedicated to sustaining democratic theory and extending democratic practice. The aim of the Center is to encourage political and cultural activity essential to the survival and growth of democracy; to foster interdisciplinary, cross-cultural and methodologically diversified research; to offer opportunities for practical civic education and democratic experience; and to promote projects aimed at developing innovative democratic institutions and practices. The Whitman Center also sponsors research, conferences and visiting speakers around significant questions of democratic theory and practice that have been neglected by traditional disciplinary social science. The Center is committed to combining empirical studies of democratic institutions and behavior with normative criticism. The aim is to anchor democratic theory in concrete findings and at the same time subject democratic practice to the scrutiny of theory. The Center's research agenda includes four main project fields: Civil Society in America; Civic Education for Democracy; Perception and Measurement of Participation in Civic Life (which includes issues of women and citizenship, and measuring citizenship); and Global Civil Society. The Center develops and shares its ongoing research through conferences, the Whitman Seminar Series and the Whitman Lecture as well as working papers, project reports and other occasional publications.
2. New Citizenship <http://cpn.journalism.wisc.edu/cpn/sections/> The homepage offers a list of recent articles/publications relating to the realization of democratic citizenship. The articles are divided into three main areas: 1) Civic Practices, which includes "National Renewal" and "Relationship and Power"; 2) Contemporary Democratic Theory, where you can find "The Meanings of Citizenship, from Building America: The Democratic Promise of Public Work" and "Does Participation Make Better Citizens?"; and 3) Classics of Democratic Thought, which for the moment only includes Alexis de Tocqueville's "Political Associations in America".
3. Civic Practices Network (CPN) <http://cpn.journalism.wisc.edu/cpn/sections/about_cpn/about_cpn.html> The Walt Whitman Centre and the New Citizenship homepages (see above) are linked to the Civic Practices Network, which is a pluralist and nonpartisan network of civic educators and practitioners who share a commitment to "new citizenship" and "civic revitalization". The CPN brings practical tools for public problem solving into community and institutional settings across America. Its membership includes civic leaders and policy experts, who work to develop new approaches to enhance citizens' roles in active public problem solving and responsible democratic deliberation. The CPN's World Wide Web pages provide a common resource for practical civic education, responsible community action, and democratic policy making. For more information about the CPN, write to Civic Practices Network (CPN), Center for Human Resources, Heller School for Advanced Studies in Social Welfare, Brandeis University, 60 Turner Street, Waltham, MA 02154 or email: [cpn@tiac.net](mailto: cpn@tiac.net)
4. Migration News <http://migration.ucdavis.edu> Migration News summarizes the most important immigration and integration developments during the preceding month. Topics are grouped by region: North America, Europe, Asia, and Other. There are two versions of Migration News. The paper copy has about 8,000 words, and the email version about 15,000 words. The purpose of Migration News is to provide summaries of recent immigration developments that can be read in 60 minutes or less. Many issues summaries and reviews of recent research publications. If you wish to subscribe to the e-mail version, send your email address to: Migration News <migrant@primal.ucdavis.edu> Current and back issues may be accessed via Internet on the Migration News Home Page--- <http://migration.ucdavis.edu> There is no charge for an email subscription to Migration News. A paper copy of Migration News is available by mail for $30 domestic and $50 foreign. Make checks payable to UC Regents and send to: Philip Martin, Department of Agricultural Economics, University of California, Davis California 95616 USA. Migration News is produced with the support of the University of California-Berkeley Center for German and European Studies, the German Marshall Fund of the United States, and the Pew Charitable Trusts.
5. Political Science Research Page <http://www.trincoll.edu/pols/research/research.html> This site contains links to four major research resources in political science. The first link is to research libraries. The second is to academic departments of political science throughout the world. The third link is to on-line documents and texts, which for the most part are American texts, but which also include the constitutions of various countries, United Nations documents, and texts by Mill, Locke, Plato and Marx among other philosophers. The final link is to political research institutions, including the American Political Science Association, the Canadian Political Science Association, ERCOMER, and many of the sites recommended here in previous newsletters.
6. PHILOSOP Mailing List PHILOSOP is a Canadian-based philosophy mailing list. Its purpose is to provide those interested in academic philosophy with an informal way to exchange information. Postings are usually conference announcements, job postings, newsletters, tables of contents from select journals, announcements from other mailing lists, and requests for information from subscribers. Discussion is not encouraged on this list. To subscribe, send an e-mail to: majordomo@majordomo.srv.ualberta.ca Leave the subject line blank. In the body of the message, type: subscribe philosop
7. Public Policy Network (PUBPOL) The Public Policy Network offers two lists which you can subscribe to. 1) PUBPOL-L is an electronic forum for professionals, graduate students, faculty, and staff in the fields of public policy, public administration, planning, and other related areas. The topics covered in posting include current public policy issues, events and conferences, research, teaching,curriculum and courses, employment and career opportunities, activities of public policy practitioners, announcements of relevant Internet resources, and other topics of interest. The list encourages the electronic posting of newsletters, conference notices, and other text normally distributed in paper form by public policy schools and their centers or programs, government agencies, legislative bodies, or public-sector oriented organizations. This list has around 1000 subscribers, and postings average from 2 to 6 per day. 2) PUBPOL-D is an electronic mail forum dedicated to open, serious, and substantial discussion of public policy issues and for extended comment on items posted to PUBPOL-L. (PUBPOL-L is not an appropriate forum for general discussion, although summaries of research findings and short responses to information search requests are allowed). Summaries of research findings and short responses to information search requests are appropriate for posting to PUBPOL-L. This discussion list has approximately 500 members, and has a higher volume of mail. To subscribe to these lists, send an e-mail message to: listserv@vm1.spcs.umn.edu
8. Leave the subject line blank. In the text portion write: Subscribe PUBPOL-L Your name or Subscribe PUBPOL-D Your name.

#### 4\. Recent Publications

Sylvie Leger (ed), LINGUISTIC RIGHTS IN CANADA: COLLUSIONS OR COLLISIONS (Canadian Centre for Linguistic Rights, University of Ottawa, 1995). Pierre Coulombe, LANGUAGE RIGHTS IN FRENCH CANADA (Peter Lang, New York, 1995).

Rainer Baubock, TRANSNATIONAL CITIZENSHIP: MEMBERSHIP AND RIGHTS IN INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION (Edward Elgar, Cheltenham, 1995). Robert Fullinwider (ed), PUBLIC EDUCATION IN A MULTICULTURAL SOCIETY (Cambridge University Press, 1995).

David Miller and Michael Walzer (eds), PLURALISM, JUSTICE, AND EQUALITY (Oxford University Press, 1995). A collection of papers discussing Michael Walzer's theory of justice and pluralism. symposium on "Democratic Education in a Multicultural State" in JOURNAL OF PHILOSOPHY OF EDUCATION, Vol. 29, #2, 1995\. Includes articles by Yael Tamir, Michael Walzer, Stephen Macedo, Susan Mendus and many others. symposium on "the Individual, the Community and the State", in SOCIAL PHILOSOPHY AND POLICY, Vol. 13/1 (1996), includes articles by Stephen Macedo, Chandran Kukathas, Benjamin Barber, Cass Sunstein, Martha Nussbaum, and several others.

Symposium on "Citizenship, Democracy and Education", in ETHICS, Vol. 105/3 (1995), articles by William Galston, Sanford Levinson, Amy Gutmann, IrisYoung. symposium on "Pluralisme, Justice, Egalite: De L'Empirique au Philosophique dans L'Etude de la Democratie", in REVUE FRANCAISE DE SCIENCE POLITIQUE", Vol. 46/2 (April 1996). Includes an encyclopedic article by Jean Leca on pluralism and democracy, as well as articles by Derek Parfit and Bertrand Guillarme.

#### 5\. Related Research Programs

- The "European Forum" is an interdisciplinary research centre at the European University Institute in Florence, Italy. Each year, it brings together scholars from around the world who are working on an issue of topical importance. The title of the 1997-98 Forum is "International Migrations: Geography, Politics and Culture in Europe and Beyond". The Forum offers 10 year-long fellowships, as well as several shorter-term fellowships. If you have a doctorate, are working in the area of migration, and would like to apply for one of these fellowships, please contact: The European Forum, European University Institute, Villa Schifanoia, Via Boccaccio 121, 50133 Florence, Italy. Fax: 39-55-4685575\. E-mail: <divry@datacomm.iue.it>
- The International Center for Migration, Ethnicity and Citizenship has recently been established at the New School for Social Research in New York, under the direction of Aristide Zolberg. It is studying migration issues at the local, national and international level, including a comparative study on "Identity and Citizenship: Incorporation and Diversity in Contemporary Democracies". There is a WWWsite available at <http://www.newschool.edu/icmec> For more information, and to receive their free quarterly newsletter entitled "Epicenter" write to Barbara Syrrakos, International Center for Migration, Ethnicity and Citizenship, New School for Social Research, 65 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10003, USA.
- The Institute for Migration and Ethnic Studies (IMES) was established at the University of Amsterdam in 1994, under the direction of Prof. Rinus Penninx. It is an interdisciplinary research centre whose research programme is entitled "International Migration, Ethnic Processes and Social Inequality". A WWW site is available at <http://www.geog.ucl.ac.uk/mru/imes.html>For more information, contact IMES, University of Amsterdam, Rokin 84, 1012 KX Amsterdam, Netherlands. Fax: 31-20-525-3638; e-mail: <imes@sara.nl>

---

**ANNOUNCEMENTS:** If you would like to announce a new research project, publication, call for papers, or upcoming conference in a future issue of this newsletter, please contact us at <cded@post.queensu.ca> , or you can write to the:

| Canadian Centre for Philosophy and Public Policy |
| ------------------------------------------------ |
| Department of Philosophy                         |
| Watson Hall                                      |
| Queen's University                               |
| Kingston, Ontario                                |
| Canada                                           |
| K7L 3N6                                          |
| Telephone                                        |
| 613 545-2182                                     |
| Fax 613 545-6545                                 |

The CCPPP gratefully acknowledges the assistance of the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada in funding this newsletter. Special thanks to Lise Charlebois for help with the Internet Resources section, and with the distribution of the newsletter.
