# Citizenship, Democracy and Ethnocultural Diversity Newsletter, No. 56, May 2010

## _Queen's Forum for Philosophy and Public Policy_

### Contents

- [1\. Introduction](#1-introduction)
- [2\. Upcoming Conferences](#2-upcoming-conferences)
- [3\. Recent Publications](#3-recent-publications)
  - [Journal Special Issues](#journal-special-issues)
- [4\. Call for Papers and New Journals](#4-call-for-papers-and-new-journals)
- [5\. Fellowships and Courses](#5-fellowships-and-courses)
- [6\. Related Research Projects](#6-related-research-projects)

#### 1\. Introduction

The Forum for Philosophy and Public Policy at Queen's University is organizing a multi-year, research project on citizenship, democracy and minority rights in multiethnic states, under the direction of Prof. Will Kymlicka. As part of this project, the Forum distributes a quarterly newsletter updating recent developments in the field, of which this is the fifty-sixth issue. We hope that it will be of interest to anyone working in the field, whether in academia, public service, or non-governmental organizations.

If you would like to be added to the mailing list for this newsletter, please contact us at <cded@queensu.ca>. Back-issues of the newsletter are posted on the Web on Will Kymlicka's home-page: <http://www.queensu.ca/cded/news.html>

#### 2\. Upcoming Conferences

An International Conference on Cultural and Biological Diversity, entitled "Diversity for Development - Development for Diversity", will be held from 8-10 June 2010 in Montreal, Canada, organized by UNESCO, the Secretariat of the Convention on Biological Diversity, the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the Canada Research Chair in Ethnoecology and Biodiversity at the Université de Montréal. The main objectives of the conference are to bring together civil society, representatives of indigenous and local populations, policy makers, scientists and intergovernmental and development cooperation agencies to exchange knowledge and practices linking biological and cultural diversity; and to provide elements for a programme of work to be jointly implemented by UNESCO, the CBD and other partners. For more information, visit the conference website at: <http://www.cbd.int/meetings/icbcd/>.

The 7th Annual Immigration Law and Policy Conference will be held on June 25, 2010 at the Georgetown University Law Center in Washington. The conference will offer law and policy analysis on cutting-edge immigration issues. Featured panelists will include high-ranking government officials, academics, advocates, and other immigration experts. Featured topics will include an analysis of the current immigration policy state of play, immigrant integration in an era of budget cuts, immigration court reform, issues related to enforcement of immigration laws, and humanitarian issues for Haitians, refugees, asylum seekers, and other vulnerable populations. Additional information and registration available online at: <http://www.cliniclegal.org/law-and-policy-conference2010>.

The Centre for Research on Nationalism, Ethnicity and Multiculturalism (CRONEM) at the University of Surrey is hosting its 6th annual conference on the theme "Living Together, Civic, Political and Cultural Engagement Among Migrants, Minorities and National Populations: Multidisciplinary Perspectives" on 29-30 June 2010 at the University of Surrey, Guildford, UK. This conference will range across different academic disciplines and explore links between academic knowledge, policy, practice and the media. This conference aims to take stock of the different forms of civic, political and cultural engagement which currently exist, and investigate the factors and processes which are driving them. A special feature of the conference this year will be an event organised by the Runnymede Trust, which will consider where Britain stands 10 years after the Parekh Report on the future of multi-ethnic Britain and 25 years after the Swann Report. For more information, please visit <http://www.surrey.ac.uk/Arts/CRONEM/index.htm>.

A symposium on "Migrant Security: Citizenship and Social Inclusion in a Transnational Era" will be held at the Public Memory Research Centre at the University of Southern Queensland, Australia, 15-16 July 2010\. The symposium aims to promote new cross-disciplinary formulations of migrants' experience of community and individual security. The symposium seeks to analyse migrant perceptions of citizenship and social inclusion, particularly through the nature of migrants' engagement with civic society. The symposium will embed this approach with scholarship regarding transnational identities and the politics of forgiveness and belonging. For further information, please visit the symposium website: <http://www.usq.edu.au/migrantsecurity>.

The International Centre for Education for Democratic Citizenship will host its 4th annual conference on the theme "Education for 'national' citizenship in the context of devolution and ethno-religious conflict" on July 15-16 2010 at Birkbeck, University of London. This conference is open to academics from sociology, education, politics and other relevant disciplines, as well as policymakers and practitioners working in the areas of citizenship, citizenship education, naturalisation, national identity, immigration, devolution, ethno-religious conflict and other areas relating to the following sub-themes, i) Citizenship education, ii) Naturalisation, iii) Gender, iv) Ethnic and religious diversity, v) Societies and conflict, vi) Inclusive participation, vii) local, regional, national and global levels of identification / governance. For more information, see <http://www.bbk.ac.uk/icedc/news/ICEDCconference2010>.

There will be an "International Conference on Multiculturalism and Global Community", organized by the Institute for Humanities and Cultural Studies and the Iranian National Commission for UNESCO, to be held on 24-27 July 2010 in Tehran, Iran. Themes include Culture: Diversity or Integrity; Islam: New Challenges, New Perspectives; Iran: Realities and Appearances. For more information please follow this link: <http://www.mcgc.ir/>.

A conference on "Patriotism and Cosmopolitanism in a Divided World: Contemporary and Historical Perspectives" will be hosted by the Department of Government and Politics, University of Tartu (Estonia) on 2-4 September 2010\. There is a powerful trend in recent moral and political philosophy towards delineating theories of patriotism or nationalism that would be compatible with liberal universalism and would even promote certain cosmopolitan values, such as global solidarity, peace, and justice. But these theories have been contested. Can we think of patriotism without an element of national pride and jealousy? How does competitive global commerce affect patriotism? What role does the international environment of a particular state play in the formation and character of the discourse of patriotism in that state? The aim of the workshop is to discuss these issues by looking at various contemporary and historical theories of patriotism and cosmopolitanism. For more information about the workshop, please contact Dr. Eva Piirimäe (<eva.piirimae@ut.ee>).

A conference on "Nationalism and Legitimacy" will be held on 10-11 September 2010 at Nancy-Université, France. This conference seeks to examine the evolution of legitimacy of the nation-state in the contemporary world. Notably, we wish to consider how successfully, and in what ways, nation-states (re)define themselves in order to maintain this legitimacy, the ways in which nations and nation-states may reinforce one another's legitimacy and the extent to which this legitimacy maybe strengthened or undermined by supranational bodies. For more information, visit the conference website at <http://www.univ-nancy2.fr/CEAA/CRESAB/>.

CIDOB (the Barcelona Centre for International Affairs) is hosting a research seminar on "Diversity and Tolerance in Europe: Policies in Public Institutions and Private Organisations" in Barcelona on September 22, 2010\. The event is co-sponsored with the Interdisciplinary research group on immigration (GRITIM) at the University Pompeu Fabra, and is coordinated by Ricard Zapata-Barrero and Elena Sanchez Montijano. The seminar aims to promote a debate on diversity management in public institutions and private organisations, in particular research exploring how tolerance is expressed in diversity policies. For more information, contact Elena Sanchez (migraciones@cidob.org). Proposals are due by 15 June 2010\. This seminar is linked with the Accept Project (<http://accept.eui.eu>).

A conference on "First Generation Nationals, Social Trajectories, Mobilization, and Social Imaginaries" will be hosted at the University of Bergen (Norway) on September 27-30, 2010\. Confirmed speakers include Claire Alexander, Mette Andersson, Mustafa Dicek, David Theo Goldberg, Christine Jacobsen, Caroline Knowles, Peggy Levitt Yngve Lithman, Ove Sernhede, Miri Song Anders Vassenden, Viggo Vestel. The themes include the structural position of second generation immigrants, public mobilization of transnational identities/interests, social imaginaries, migration and race. For more information, visit <http://org.uib.no/imer/fgn_2010.html>.

"Creating Nations and Building States: Past and Present" is the theme of the 2010 Annual Meeting of the American Society for Ethnohistory, to be held in Ottawa, Canada from October 13-17 2010\. The conference will focus on indigenous societies and their relations with expanding colonial and modern state structures of Canada, America, and Latin America. For more information, send an email to Professor Jean-Francois Belisle at <jbelisle@uottawa.ca> or visit <http://ethnohistory.org/sections/meetings/2010/call-for-papers-2010.html>

The Beijing International Conference on Human Rights will be held on 16-17 October 2010 in Beijing, organized by the Institute of Philosophy, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences and Philosophy Summer School in China, sponsored by The Ford Foundation. The Conference will focus on the concepts, theories, principles and values of human rights and their application in Chinese or in other contexts. The Conference will also discuss proposals for improving the implementation of human rights in China or other countries. We welcome philosophers, lawyers, social scientists and other scholars to come to Beijing to participate in our Conference. The working languages of the Conference are Chinese and English. The abstracts by invited speakers and those responding to the call for papers should be sent to Professor Qiu Renzong at <rzq@chinaphs.org> by email by 30 June 2010.

A conference entitled "Towards Critical Multiculturalism: Dialogues between/among Canadian Diasporas" is being organized by the University of Silesia and Jagiellonian University on October 7-9 2010, in Cracow, Poland. The Congress organizers cordially invite interested scholars, writers, artists and activists to submit papers on any topic pertaining to the problem of cultural encounters between/among Canadian diasporic and Indigenous groups. Submissions from postgraduate students at any stage of their research are also welcome. For more information, visit <http://www.cecanstud.cz>.

The new Minority Research Network (see under "related research projects" below) is organizing its inaugural international conference on "Socio-Economic Participation of Minorities in Relation to their Right to Identity" at the University of Rotterdam on October 27-29 2010\. This conference seeks to unravel the different ways in which regulations that at first sight hinder (or promote) the right to identity of minorities (such as restrictions on the veil, or language requirements) have repercussions for their de facto socio-economic participation. For more information, visit <http://www.frg.eur.nl/MRNconference>.

The French branch of the Society for Intercultural Education, Training and Research (SIETAR) is organizing a conference on "Human Rights and Diversity: From Civil Society to Organizational Practices" on 28-30 October 2010 in Lille, France. The conference will explore the impact of human rights on the diversity of cultures, ethnic backgrounds, religious beliefs, age and gender in multicultural societies. For more information, contact Grant Douglas at: <secretariat@sietar-france.org> or visit the conference website at: <http://www.sietar-france.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=81&Itemid=127>.

Ryerson University (Toronto) will host a conference on "Migration and the Global City" on October 29-31 2010, to launch its new Research Institute on Immigration and Settlement. Both the conference and the institute are dedicated to advancing innovative and interdisciplinary research from diverse critical and institutional perspectives in the areas of immigration and settlement, international migration, integration, and diaspora and refugee studies. The Call for Papers is available at: <http://www.riis.ryerson.ca/call4papers/index.html>.

The Groupe de recherche pluridisciplinaire sur les sociétés plurinationales (GRSP) will be holding a conference on "La dynamique confiance/méfiance dans les démocraties plurinationales" on 4-6 November 2010, Montréal. The conference will explore the dynamics of trust and mistrust in plurinational democracies. For more information see the following pdf file: <http://www.aieq.qc.ca/bulletins/2010/02/dynamique.confiance.mefiance.pdf>.

"Education and Citizenship in a Globalising World" is the theme of the third international education conference convened jointly by the Institute of Education, London and Beijing Normal University, to be held on 19-20 November 2010 at the University of London. The languages of the conference will be English and Mandarin Chinese. The conference sub-themes are Moral Education, Values and Citizenship, Sustainability, Development and Global Citizenship, Multicultural Education, Diversity and Social Cohesion, and Patriotism, Cosmopolitanism and Education. We welcome contributions in the form of academic papers based on research or scholarship; case studies of practice in schools, communities and formal and informal education settings; reports of projects and initiatives at local, regional, national or international levels. Contributions are welcome from academics and researchers from education, sociology, politics and other relevant disciplines, as well as teachers, political or community activists, and those working for NGOs, national or local government agencies. For further details see <http://www.ioe.ac.uk/about/37498.html>.

The First Colloquium in Multiculturalism, Canadian Multiculturalism and Multicultural Education is hosted by the Canadian Studies Division at the Universidad de Matanzas Camilo Cienfuegos, Cuba with the collaboration of the CCMDD (Canadian Centre for Multicultural Development and Documentation, Windsor). This conference will be held from February 23-25 2011, at the Canadian Studies Division of the University of Matanzas, on the occasion of its 15th anniversary. The conference will bring together scholars, researchers, professors and other professionals interested in the fields discussed , along with invited keynote speakers, to catalyze discussion - particularly on Canadian Multiculturalism - through papers, panels, readings, round tables and lectures. The organizers invite papers that illuminate the vast diversity of Canadian multicultural life and concepts. All proposals for communication (either English or Spanish) must be sent by email by January 15th 2011 to <emilio.rodriguez@umcc.cu>.

#### 3\. Recent Publications

Books (prices in US\$)

- Agarin, Timofey and Malte Brosig (2009) Minority Integration in Central Eastern Europe: Between Ethnic Diversity and Equality (Rodopi), \$111.60.
- Alghasi, Sharam, Thomas Hylland Eriksen, and Halleh Ghorashi (2009) Paradoxes of Cultural Recognition (Ashgate), \$124.95.
- Caccia, Ivana (2010) Managing the Canadian Mosaic in Wartime: Shaping Citizenship Policy 1939-45 (McGill Queens UP), \$90.
- Calder, Gideon, Phillip Cole, Jonathan Seglow (eds.) (2010) Citizenship Acquisition and National Belonging: Migration, Membership and the Liberal Democratic State (Palgrave), \$85.
- Charters, Claire (2010) Making the Declaration Work: The United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples (IWGIA), \$39.95.
- Daly, Katherine, Daniel Schugurensky and Krista Lopes (eds.) (2009) Learning Democracy by Doing: Alternative Practices in Citizenship Learning and Participatory Democracy (OISE/University of Toronto)
- De Schutter, Olivier and Ringelheim, Julie (eds.) (2010) Ethnic Monitoring - The Processing of Racial and Ethnic Data in Anti-Discrimination Policies - Reconciling the Promotion of Equality with Privacy Rights (Bruylant), \$51.72.
- Dietz, Gunther (2009) Multiculturalism, Interculturality and Diversity in Education: An anthropological approach (Waxmann).
- Fleras, Augie (2009) The Politics of Multiculturalism: Multicultural Governance in Comparative Perspective (Palgrave), \$84.95.
- Henders, Susan J. (2010) Territoriality, Asymmetry, and Autonomy: Catalonia, Corsica, Hong Kong, and Tibet (Palgrave), \$73.26.
- Higley, John, Hogn Nieuwenhuysen and Stine Neerup (eds) (2009) Nations of Immigrants: Australia and the USA Compared (Elgar), \$100.
- Kivisto, Peter and Thomas Faist (2009) Beyond a Border: The Causes and Consequences of Contemporary Immigration (Pine Forge Press), \$33.87.
- Kolers, Avery (2009) Land, Conflict, and Justice: A Political Theory of Territory (Cambridge UP), \$95.
- Lowndes, Joseph E., Julie Novkov, Dorian T. Warren (eds) (2010) Race and American Political Development (Routledge), \$36.95
- Macey, Marie (2009) Multiculturalism, Religion and Women: Doing Harm by Doing Good? (Palgrave), \$90.00.
- Martiniello, Marco and Jan Rath (eds.) (2010) Selected Studies in International Migration and Immigrant Incorporation (Amsterdam UP), \$53.95.
- McDonald Ted, Elizabeth Ruddick, Arthur Sweetman & Christopher Worswick (eds) (2010) Canadian Immigration: Economic Evidence for a Dynamic Policy Environment (McGill-Queen's UP), \$39.95.
- Mckinnon, Catriona and Dario Castiglione (eds.) (2009) The Culture of Toleration in Diverse Societies: Reasonable Toleration (Manchester UP),\$36.95.
- Mookherjee, Monica (2009) Women's Rights as Multicultural Claims: Reconfiguring Gender and Diversity in Political Philosophy (Edinburgh UP).
- Osler, A. and H. Starkey (2010) Teachers and Human Rights Education (Trentham Books), \$29.47.
- Reid, Alan, Judith Gill, and Alan Sears (eds.) (2010) Globalization, the Nation-State and the Citizen: Dilemmas and Directions for Civics and Citizenship Education (Routledge) \$95.00.
- Ryan, Phil (2010) Multicultiphobia (University of Toronto Press) \$24.95.
- Salaberry, M. Rafael (ed.) (2009) Language Allegiances and Bilingualism in the US (Multilingual Matters), \$39.95.
- Shiffrin, Steven (2010) The Religious Left and Church-State Relations (Princeton UP), \$35.
- Stoltz, Pauline, Marina Svensson, Sun Zhongxin and Qi Wang (eds.) (2010) Gender Equality, Citizenship and Human Rights - Controversies in China and the Nordic Countries (Routledge), \$120.
- Venice Commission (2010) Blasphemy, insult and hatred - Finding answers in a democratic society (Council of Europe Publications).
- Verdeja, Ernesto (2009) Unchopping A Tree: Reconciliation in the Aftermath of Political Violence (Temple UP) \$59.90.
- Vertovec, Steven and Susanne Wessendorf (eds.) (2010) The Multiculturalism Backlash: European discourses, policies and practices (Routledge), \$140.
- Weller, Marc and Katherine Nobbs (eds) (2010) Asymmetric Autonomy and the Settlement of Ethnic Conflicts (University of Pennsylvania Press) \$59.95
- Zapata-Barrero, Ricard (ed.) (2009) Citizenship policies in the age of diversity: Europe at the crossroads (CIDOB, Barcelona).

It is also worth noting several recent publications by the Council of Europe, including:

- Institutional Accommodation and the Citizen: Legal and Political Interaction in a Pluralist Society
- European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages - Collected Texts
- White Paper on Intercultural Dialogue "Living Together as Equals in Dignity"
- Minority Language Protection in Europe: Into a New Decade
- Intercultural Dialogue in the Framework of European Human Rights Protection
- Intercultural Cities - Towards a Model for Intercultural Integration

##### Journal Special Issues

The journal Educational Philosophy and Theory has published a special issue entitled Toleration, Respect and Recognition in Education guest edited by Mitja Sardoc (Vol. 42/1, 2010). Authors include Mitja Sardoc, Colin Macleod, Sune Laegaard, Peter Nigel Jones, Andrew Shorten, Lucas Swaine, Blain Neufeld & Gordon Davis, Colin Bird, Peter A. Balint. For more information, see: <http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/118509536/home>.

Ethnopolitics has just published a special issue on "Ethnicity and Religion: Intersections and Comparisons" (Vol. 9/1, 2010), guest edited by Joseph Ruane and Jennifer Todd. The issue includes articles by Joseph Ruane and Jennifer Todd, Arnim Langer, Graham K. Brown, Claire Mitchell, Robert D. Lowe, Orla T. Muldoon, Jennifer Todd, and Gladys Ganiel.

The Spring 2010 issue of Ethics & International Affairs features a symposium on global democracy, with guest editors Raffaele Marchetti and Terry Macdonald, and articles by Terry Macdonald and Kate Macdonald, Jens Steffek, and John Gastil, Colin J. Lingle, and Eugene P. Deess.

Ethnic and Racial Studies (Vol 33/5, 2010) contains a special issue guest edited by Tracey Reynolds on "Young People, Ethnicity and Social Capital". Authors include Sheena McGrellis, Arniika Kuusisto, Tracey Reynolds, Elisabetta Zontini, Ravinder Barn, Daniel Briggs, and Susie Weller.

The Hague Journal of Diplomacy (Vol. 5/1, 2010) has a special issue on substate diplomacy, focusing in particular on the diplomatic activities of substate nations such as Quebec, Scotland, Catalonia, Wallonia and Flanders. The special issue is guest-edited by David Criekemans, and includes articles by Elena Albina, Peter Bursens and Jana Deforche, Stephane Paquin, Ellen Huijgh, Noe Cornago, Jorge A. Schiavon, and Luc Van den Brande.

There is a special issue of Pacific Affairs (Volume 83/1, 2010) on the "Politics of Citizenship and Transnational Gendered Migration in East and Southeast Asia". The issue is edited by Apichai W. Shipper and includes contributions from Nobue Suzuki, Timothy Lim, Sara L. Friedman, Wang-Bae Kim, Johan Lindquist, and the editor.

The Journal of International Migration and Integration (Vol.11/1, 2010) is devoted to the theme "The Education of Minority Muslim Students: Comparative Perspective". It is guest-edited by Marie McAndrew, Julia Ipgrave & Amina Triki-Yamani, and includes articles by Sarfaroz Niyozov, Francoise Lorcerie, Joyce Miller, Paul Hopkins, Najma Akhtar, Manju Narula, Nadeem Memon, Deborah A. Cobb-Clark, Siew-Ean Khoo, Deniz Canel-Cinarbas, Sophie Yohani, Lydia Bean, Parvinder Hira-Friesen and the editors.

There is a special issue of Parliamentary Affairs on Britishness (Volume 63/2 2010), exploring issues of identity and citizenship across the four nations of the UK, and in Europe and the Commonwealth, edited by Andrew Mycock and Catherine McGlynn. It includes contributions from Tariq Modood and Varun Uberoi, Christopher Bryant, Jonathan Tonge and James W.McAuley, Murray Leith, Jonathan Bradbury and Rhys Andrews, and the editors.

There is a symposium on Gillian Brock's book Global Justice: A Cosmopolitan Account in the Journal of Global Ethics (Volume 5/3, 2009). The symposium includes review essays by Chris Armstrong, David Miller, Darrel Moellendorf, and a response from Brock.

#### 4\. Call for Papers and New Journals

Educational Research, the journal of the National Foundation for Educational Research, will publish a special issue on "Intercultural Citizenship and Human Rights Education" in 2011\. The special issue will be co-edited by David Kerr and Avril Keating, and seeks articles from a range of contexts and perspectives – including international, regional (Europe, Asia, Latin America, Africa), national, and local perspectives as well as school, classroom, community contexts that encapsulate the exciting debates, issues and developments currently underway in the field. Proposed papers are due by the deadline of 30 July 2010\. For further details about the issue see this pdf file: <http://www.tandf.co.uk/journals/cfp/rerecfp.pdf>.

Peace Review: A Journal of Social Justice has issued a call for papers for a specal issue on "Memorializing Space". From the family group to the nation state, the creation of memorials has been a central human activity across cultures, borders, and time. From the Vietnam Wall in Washington DC, to the Cenotaph for the A-Bomb victims in Hiroshima, spaces have held identity narratives, become the tangible repository of traumatic memory, and articulated contexts to make meaning out of tragedy and struggle. In this special issue of Peace Review, we wish to explore the vast range of associations that memorials conjure in our contemporary imaginary. Peace Review is a quarterly, multidisciplinary transnational journal of research and analysis focusing on the current issues and controversies that underlie the promotion of a more peaceful world. Peace Review publishes essays on ideas and research in peace studies, broadly defined. Essays are relatively short (2,500-3,000 words,) contain no footnotes or exhaustive bibliography, and are intended for a wide readership. For more information, see <http://usf.usfca.edu/peacereview/PRHome.html>

Peninsula: A Journal of Relational Politics is a new graduate journal in political theory at the University of Victoria, and seeks submissions on the idea of "Politics as Relationality". If political thought takes place within unacknowledged and often totalizing theoretical frames - those which include and exclude, objectify and subjectify, and so on - then uncovering these frames is a kind of academic activism. Thinking in terms of relationality might therefore constitute a critical-ethical approach to Western political thought and its foundational assumptions about (the relations between) self, other, and community. Focusing on the relational dimension of politics means emphasizing understandings of politics as a shared and common reality as something that concerns plurality and multiplicity, but also communality, mutability and openness. Hence, reflections on relationality might involve re-interpreting classic and modern texts, re-examining overlooked arguments, disrupting consensual assumptions in the canon, inquiring into the interstices of traditional conceptual divisions, or imagining other ways of being together. Peninsula will publish peer-reviewed articles or artworks, reviews, and reflections, in French and English. The journal's first issue will appear in September, 2010, and will be partly devoted to the question of relationality. Submissions are due on June 1, 2010\. For detailed information on the submission process, please visit <http://uvic.ca/peninsula>, or contact the editor, Liam Mitchell (<liamm@uvic.ca>).

The University of Pennsylvania Press announces the launch of a new journal, Humanity: An International Journal of Human Rights, Humanitarianism, and Development. In recent decades, the traditional contest of left and right has been displaced by a politics of humanity. In both domestic and international contexts, the languages of human rights and humanitarianism are often marshaled as moral claims that bolster diverse global enterprises of governance, intervention, and reform. This new journal provides a single forum for the dispassionate, analytically focused examination of these trends. Anyone interested in pursuing publication in the journal can write to the editor at humanityjournal@gmail.com, or visit the website at: <http://hum.pennpress.org/>

The Journal for the Study of Religions and Ideologies (<http://www.jsri.ro>) launches the call for papers for its issues in 2011\. A special issue is on "Religious Minorities in Central and Eastern Europe at the Beginning of the Third Millenium". (Deadline: February 1st, 2011). JSRI is a journal focusing on religious studies that encourages interdisciplinary approaches engaging the following domains: philosophy of religions, ethics, political philosophy and political science, anthropology, sociology, interreligious dialogue and communications theory. All articles must explore the religious dimension of the issues covered. JSRI is an international on-line publication of SCIRI (the Seminar for the Interdisciplinary Research of Religions and Ideologies) and SACRI (the Academic Society for the Research of Religions and Ideologies). Before submitting their paper, authors are kindly invited to consult the Authors Guidelines section on the website, <http://jsri.ro/new/?Author_Guidelines>

The journal Monist has issued a call for papers for a special issue on "Cosmopolitanism: For and Against", guest-edited by Gillian Brock (University of Auckland - <g.brock@auckland.ac.nz>). According to cosmopolitanism, every person has global stature as the ultimate unit of moral concern and is therefore entitled to equal respect and consideration no matter what her citizenship status or other affiliations happen to be. This issue of The Monist is intended as a forum for debates about the pros and cons of cosmopolitanism. It will address questions such as: What does cosmopolitanism require by way of obligations of justice to all? What kinds of reforms to our global and local institutions do cosmopolitan concerns require? Are these requirements feasible? In addition to our obligations to everyone, do we have further, more demanding, obligations to compatriots or to family members? Do non-cosmopolitan theories provide a better account of our obligations and allow us a more useful framework for mediating the interests of compatriots and non-compatriots. Deadline for Submissions: October 31, 2010\. Further details are available on the journal website: <http://monist.buffalo.edu/callsforpapers.html>.

Springer has launched a new book series: International Perspectives on Migration. The series is edited by Peter Li and Baha Abu-Laban, two sociologists who are former editors of Springer's Journal of International Migration and Integration. The aim of the series is to publish original books that advance our understanding of international migration. Written by academic experts and policy specialists in the field of migration, the separate volumes will address a clear research question or theme, present critical analysis and will be based on sound evidence-based scholarship. The series will include monographs, multi-authored volumes and edited volumes. Interested authors are requested to submit an initial book proposal (about 1,000 words in length) for consideration by the editors, after which a more detailed book proposal may be requested. Contact Information: Professor Peter Li (Sociology, University of Saskatchewan, <peter.li@usask.ca>), Professor Baha Abu-Laban (Sociology, University of Alberta, <abulaban@ualberta.ca>).

#### 5\. Fellowships and Courses

The National Institute for the Study of Dutch Slavery and its Legacy (NiNsee) and the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam are holding the third annual Summer School on Black Europe entitled: Black Europe: Exploring Dimensions of Citizenship, Race and Ethnic Relations. June 13-30 2010\. This course will examine the rise of anti-discrimination laws in Europe, comparing the history of regulation of race and ethnic relations and the discourse surrounding the concept of Blackness and self-identification. It will also explore the notions of blackness as an official categorization; as a social construction, employed by natives to indicate (non) belonging; as a Diaspora living within Europe; and as a contestation of the dominant (White) paradigm. We will focus on the historical and colonial legacies of European countries to discuss the origins of Black Europe and investigate the impact of these legacies on policies and legislation. For more information, send an email to <a.abdou@ninsee.nl>, or visit the website: <http://www.let.vu.nl/en/news-and-agenda/agenda/2010-1e-kwart/index.asp>.

The second annual collaborative short program for masters and doctoral students on "Transnational Perspectives on Democratic Education" - offered by the Institute of Education, University of London, University of Wisconsin Madison and University of Melbourne - will be held in London, 30 June - 6 July 2010\. This program explores transnational perspectives on democratic education and the distinct contribution of human rights education by drawing on experience and scholarship from three continents. It combines keynote lectures; active workshops and a programme of visits. It is offered as part of an accredited programme or as a short course. For more information, please contact: <tpde@ioe.ac.uk> or visit the website: <http://www.ioe.ac.uk/study/MMATPD_01.html>.

The Chaire de recherche en immigration, ethnicite et citoyennete (CRIEC) of the Université du Québec à Montréal offers a \$5,000 postdoctoral award for a 4 to 8 months internship for the 2010-11 academic year. Nominations must be sent by regular mail or by email to CRIEC, no later that May 31st, 2010\. For further details, send an email to Ms. Anne-Marie Field at <criec@uqam.ca> or visit the website: <http://www.criec.uqam.ca/Page/bourse_postdoctorale.aspx>

The annual EURAC Summer School on Human Rights, Minorities and Diversity Management will be held from June 21 to July 2 in Bolzano, Italy. The Summer School deals with the complexities of human and minority rights and diversity management in Europe mainly through the discussion of the international and interregional protection mechanisms of the United Nations, the OSCE and the Council of Europe. Moreover, the wide range of linguistic, educational and political rights to be found in different national constitutional systems will be explored. A special focus explores the concept of cultural diversity under EC law as gaining more and more significance beyond the context of minority protection, as well as the phenomena of immigration and social inclusion. As a conclusion to the Summer School participants will participate in an international conference presenting the final results of the research project: MIMI – Minority Protection in Central Europe (see <http://www.eurac.edu/mimi>). For more information, visit <http://www.eurac.edu/summerschool>.

Trinity College Dublin's Department of Sociology is offering an MPHIL in Race, Ethnicity, Conflict. This degree program evolved out of the earlier MPhil in Ethnic and Racial Studies, run by the Department of Sociology since 1997\. The name change reflects the fact that Ireland, traditionally a country of emigration, has become an immigrant destination, creating new conflicts and challenges alongside Ireland's long-running ethno-national conflict. The program offers specialist theoretical training in issues relating to race, immigration, ethnicity and conflict in Irish, European and global contexts. For further details please consult our website: <http://www.ethnicracialstudies.net>.

The Faculty of Social Sciences at the University of Haifa has created a new Master Program in Peace and Conflict Management Studies. This two-year full degree program, taught in English, is designed to give international as well as Israeli students a solid theoretical base and hands-on experience using Israel and the Middle East as their living classroom. The program will be launched in the academic year 2010-2011 and registration has just started. Questions or requests should be mailed to <info@mail.uhaifa.org>. The program website is <http://overseas.haifa.ac.il/page.asp?id=99&a=a3&b=b2>.

The inter-disciplinary Centre for Citizenship, Civil Society and Rule of Law (CISRUL) at the University of Aberdeen will offer two or more PhD studentships starting 2010-11 and a further two studentships starting 2011-12\. We welcome applicants from anthropology, cultural and literary studies, history, legal theory and socio-legal studies, philosophy, politics, religious studies, sociology and theology. The studentships will include full fees and may include partial maintenance. Please note that applicants must have completed or be close to completing a postgraduate Masters degree. Please visit the website for details: <http://www.abdn.ac.uk/cisrul>.

#### 6\. Related Research Projects

Kristin Henrard, Professor of Minority Protection at the Erasmus University of Rotterdam, is coordinating a new "Minority Research Network" that brings together (1) scholarly experts with a wide range of disciplinary and regional expertise and experience; (2) advocacy and rights organisations and (3) (inter)governmental agencies responsible for minority policies and practices. The Network will serve as a space for the sharing of expertise on minority issues understood broadly to include not only traditional, autochtonous minorities, but also covering new, immigrant minorities, and indigenous peoples. For a fuller description of the Network's members, activities and plans, see the website: <http://www.frg.eur.nl/pub/sectie_staats_en_bestuursrecht/minorityresearchnetwork/>.

The InJustice Project - Advocating for Indigenous Justice is a new initiative that advocates the progressive realization of social and economic rights of Indigenous peoples in Canada. For more information, visit its Facebook page at the following link: <http://www.facebook.com/pages/The-InJustice-Project-advocating-for-indigenous-justice/285421587179>.

A new research project on "Social Cohesion and Ethnic Diversity: National Values, Local Implications" (SOCED) has received funding from the Danish Strategic Research Council. SOCED will be run by Garbi Schmidt (The Danish National Research Centre for Social Research; principal investigator) and Nils Holtug (Centre for the Study of Equality and Multiculturalism; co-principal investigator). Both in Denmark and beyond, social cohesion is a buzzword within current political debates and policy formulations. Within these arenas social cohesion is broadly considered a precondition for social and political stability and peaceful co-existence. SOCED investigates social cohesion in a local urban setting, characterized by high levels of ethnic diversity - the Municipality of Copenhagen - focusing on both conceptual and normative aspects of social cohesion and nationality; civil society practices and their impact on social cohesion; and everyday encounters between ethnic minorities and majorities, including perspectives on religion,generation and gender issues. Read more about the research project at <http://www.sfi.dk/Default.aspx?ID=7412>.

RESPECT (Towards a "Topography" of Tolerance and Equal Respect. A comparative study of policies for the distribution of public spaces in culturally diverse societies) is a collaborative research project under the European Union's 7th Framework Programme. It includes a comparative study of policies for the distribution of public spaces in culturally diverse societies. The general goals of the project are to elucidate different concepts of tolerance and their links with policies of distribution of public space; and to study the way tolerance-inspired policies combine basic democratic commitment to equality, with the aspiration to accommodate cultural diversity. RESPECT's homepage is <http://www.respect.iusspavia.it/index.php>.

The Canadian Institute On Governance (IOG), in collaboration with the Office of the Federal Interlocutor for Métis and Non-status Indians, has just released several papers for its policy research series on issues affecting Métis, non-status Indians and other Aboriginal peoples residing off-reserve. Three new papers under the series are available on the Aboriginal Policy Research Initiative website <http://iog.openconcept.ca/en/knowledge-areas/aboriginal-governance/aboriginal-policy-research-initiative>.

---

### Announcements

If you would like to announce a new research project, publication, call for papers, or upcoming conference in a future issue of this newsletter, please contact us at <cded@post.queensu.ca>, or you can write to the Forum for Philosophy and Public Policy, Department of Philosophy, Queen's University, Watson Hall 313, Kingston Ontario K7L 3N6, Canada. Fax: 613-533-6545.

Special thanks to Octavian Busuioc for research help, and to Lise Charlebois for help with the distribution of the newsletter.
