# Citizenship, Democracy and Ethnocultural Diversity Newsletter

## No. 52, May 2009

### _Queen's Forum for Philosophy and Public Policy_

---

### Contents

- [1\. [Introduction]](#1-introduction)
- [2\. [Upcoming Conferences]](#2-upcoming-conferences)
- [3\. Recent Publications](#3-recent-publications)
  - [Books (Prices in US\$)](#books-prices-in-us)
- [Journal Special Issues](#journal-special-issues)
- [4\. [Call for Papers]](#4-call-for-papers)
- [5\. [Related Research Projects]](#5-related-research-projects)
- [6\. Internet Resources](#6-internet-resources)
- [7\. Courses and Fellowships](#7-courses-and-fellowships)

#### 1\. [Introduction]

The Forum for Philosophy and Public Policy at Queen's University is organizing a multi-year, research project on citizenship, democracy and minority rights in multiethnic states, under the direction of Prof. Will Kymlicka. As part of this project, the Forum distributes a quarterly newsletter updating recent developments in the field, of which this is the fifty-second issue. We hope that it will be of interest to anyone working in the field, whether in academia, public service, or non-governmental organizations.

If you would like to be added to the mailing list for this newsletter, please contact us at <cded@queensu.ca>. Back-issues of the newsletter are posted on the Web on Will Kymlicka's home-page: <http://post.queensu.ca/~kymlicka/ddnewsletter.php>

#### 2\. [Upcoming Conferences]

The International and European Law Unit at Liverpool Law School is hosting a workshop on "Minorities, Indigenous Peoples, and Human Rights: International and Comparative Perspectives" in Liverpool on May 27, 2009\. In recent years international institutions have been increasingly concerned with minority and indigenous peoples' rights, seeking not only to prevent the escalation of ethnic tensions within national borders but also, and contextually, to promote universal respect of human rights. This workshop aims to investigate recent developments in the field by focusing on both regional and global dimensions. Special attention will be paid to the evolving international indigenous rights regime, the contribution of the European Union and the Council of Europe (including the European Court of Human Rights) to the protection of minority rights, the impact that regional and global instruments on minority rights may have on domestic legal systems, as well as the crucial issue of education and language rights of minorities. A selection of workshop papers will be published in the International Journal on Minority and Group Rights. For more information, visit the workshop website: <http://www.liv.ac.uk/law/ielu/ihrgd/minorities_workshop.htm>.

A conference on "Human Rights in Conflict: the Role of Civil Society" will take place from June 4-6, 2009, at Luiss University in Rome. This is the final conference of the SHUR project, and is being organized by the Center for Ethics and Global Politics of Luiss University. The aim is to analyze and debate links between human rights and conflicts, the role of civil society in ameliorating or worsening conflicts, and strategies to improve the impact of civil society actors in reducing human rights violations. For further information, contact organizers by email at: <shur@luiss.it> or visit the conference webpage: <http://www.luiss.it/shur/?page_id=148>.

A colloquium on "Multiculturalism and Cultural Diversity in Canada and Quebec Media" will be held from July 3-4, 2009 in Trier, Germany. The goal is to examine, through a comparative and interdisciplinary perspective, the problematic relationships between an increasingly multicultural society and the media, from printed to new medias. For more information, contact Béatrice Bagola and Lutz Schowalter (University of Trier), Hans-Jürgen Lüsebrink and Christoph Vatter (University of Saarbrücken) by email at [luesebrink@mx.uni-saarland.de](mailto:luesebrink@mx.uni- saarland.de) or consult the following website: <http://www.aieq.qc.ca/bulletins/2009/02/colloque.multiculturalisme.diversite.pdf>.

The Association for the Study of African American Life and History will host its 94th Annual Conference on the theme; "The Quest for Black Citizenship in the Americas". The conference theme is designed to facilitate and promote discussion of a wide understanding of concepts of citizenship, from a wide range of research perspectives. For information on the electronic submission process, visit: <http://convention2.allacademic.com/one/asalh/asalh09/>, or contact the Academic Program Chair, Stephanie Y. Evans, at <contact@professorevans.com>. To download the Call for Papers, go to: <http://www.asalh.org/files/Call_for_papers_2009.pdf>.

A conference called "Interconnecting Cultures in a Global Society" will be hosted by the University of Calgary, Alberta, from July 2-5, 2009\. The conference will take place at the University of Calgary, organized by the International Cultural Research Network. For more information, contact conference organizers by email: <icrn@icrn.ca> or visit the conference call for papers at the following website: <http://www.icrn.ca/Calgary2009_call_papers.asp>.

The Centre for the Study of Equality and Multiculturalism (CESEM) is organizing an Inter-disciplinary Conference on "The Politics of Social Cohesion", to be held at the University of Copenhagen on September 9-12, 2009\. The conference aims to address social cohesion and the political uses to which this concept is put, in particular in relation to ethnocultural diversity. Migration and the forms of ethnocultural diversity to which it gives rise are increasingly considered causes of conflict and destabilizing factors in contemporary democratic regimes, in part because such diversity is believed to undermine important values, including trust and solidarity. The main idea is that social identities determine attachment to and solidarity with those who belong to one's group and separation and detachment from those who do not belong. As a result of this, it is further feared that diversity tends to undermine social spending and ultimately the welfare state. Keynote speakers include Keith Banting, Nils Holtug, Christian Joppke, James Jupp, Niels Kaergard, Yngve Lithman, Andrew Mason, Per Mouritsen, Gert Tinggaard Svendsen, Eric Uslaner and Ellie Vasta. For further information and registration contact <cesem@hum.ku.dk>, or follow this link: <http://cesem.ku.dk/calendar/2009/politics_of_social_cohesion/>.

The 14th International Metropolis Conference is being organized around the theme "National Responses to Cultural Diversity". It will take place from September 14-18, 2009, in Copenhagen Denmark. The conference will examine the role of policy in determining the outcomes of immigration and the presence of immigrants in, as well as their contribution to different societies. It will consider the intended societal outcomes, the most effective ways to achieve these outcomes, and the influences that government policy and political leadership can bring to bear against a background of historical tradition and societal norms. For more information about this Metropolis conference, go to the following website: <http://www.metropolis2009.org>.

The Budapest College of Communication and Business (BCCB) will host an "International Workshop on the Concepts and Consequences of Multilingualism" from September 25-26, 2009\. The event organizers are Jolan Roka (BCCB) and Laszlo Maracz (University of Amsterdam). The workshop will address questions such as: Will it be possible to continue the project of European integration with 24 national languages already being recognized? What are the lessons to be learned from multilingual European empires of the past like the Habsburg Empire, or ex-Yugoslavia, where clear lingua franca existed? What is the legal status of language and languages in Europe? What is the relation between globalization, lingua franca and language policy in the Union? What are the perspectives of regional, minority and endangered languages in Europe? Further inquiries should be sent by email to <l.k.maracz@uva.nl> and <jroka@bkf.hu>.

The Central European Association for Canadian Studies is organizing an international colloquium on "Cultural Diversity and Social Cohesion: The Canadian Experience", to be held in Sofia, Bulgaria, from October 16-18, 2009, hosted by the University of Sofia, and the Nouvelle University Bulgare. The colloquium theme is designed around Canada's management of linguistic, cultural, ethnic, regional and political diversity. For more information, visit the following website: <http://www.cecanstud.cz/index.php>, or contact the organizers, Diana Yankova at <yankova@nlcv.net> (English) or Rennie Yotova at <reni_yotova@hotmail.com> (French).

The topic for 2009's Annual Conference of the Canadian Society for Women in Philosophy (CSWIP) will be "Responsiveness, Responsibility and Repair". The event will take place October 2-4, 2009, at the University of Guelph, with Dr. Margaret Urban Walker as keynote speaker. For more information, contact Dr. Jean Harvey, Department of Philosophy, University of Guelph, Guelph Ontario, N1G2W1; email: <jmharvey@uoguelph.ca> A full call for papers is posted on the front page of the CSWIP website: <http://cswip.ca/>.

The College of Ethnic Studies at San Francisco State University (SFSU) will host a conference entitled; "Ethnic Studies 40 Years Later: Race, Resistance and Relevance" from October 7-10, 2009, in San Francisco. Proposals focused on the following themes are especially welcome: Where is Ethnic Studies in the world today? What fruitful relationships are possible--and what obstacles exist--between Ethnic Studies programs, local communities of color, and related Diasporas? How are social justice pedagogies relevant to the field of Ethnic Studies? In what ways have our conceptual tools for discussions about race, racialization, racial formation, and power changed since the founding of Ethnic studies? How are class, gender, sexuality religion, and citizenship conceptualized in Ethnic Studies? How might recent events such as restrictions of civil liberties domestically and internationally, the election of Barack Obama, ongoing wars, and the international economic crisis affect the field of Ethnic Studies and the centering of race relations? The event will be sponsored by the College of Ethnic Studies, Departments of Africana, American Indian, Asian American and Race Studies; Race and Resistance Studies Initiative (RRS) and Arab Muslim Ethnicities and Diaspora Initiative (AMED), and the Cesar Chavez Institute. For more information about proposal submission, visit the following website: <http://www.sfsu.edu/~ethnicst/fortieth.html>. The submission deadline is June 15\. For further information, contact the organizers by email: <fortieth@sfsu.edu>.

The date of the first conference on "Applied Interculturality Research" has changed since initially announced in this newsletter. The original dates were September 16-19, 2009 and Feb. 15 deadline for abstract submission. The new conference date is April 7-10, 2010, and new abstract deadline is August 31, 2009\. (Since the conference will take place in 2010 rather than 2009, the acronym has changed from cAIR09 to cAIR10, and the conference's internet and email addresses are also changed). The web-link below contains a revised call for papers and other information: <http://www.uni-graz.at/fAIR/cAIR10>

The 3rd Global Conference on Multiculturalism, Conflict and Belonging will take place from September 25-28, 2009, at Mansfield College, Oxford University. This multi-disciplinary event will explore the prominence of the idea of culture in the construction of identity, and implications for membership in contemporary societies. In particular, the project will assess the larger context of major world transformations, for example, new forms of migration and the massive movements of people across the globe, as well as the impact and contribution of globalization on tensions, conflicts and the sense of rootedness and belonging. The Organizing Chairs are Alejandro Cervantes-Carson, Inter-Disciplinary.Net, Barcelona, Catalunya, Spain; email: acc@inter-disciplinary.net and Rob Fisher, Inter-Disciplinary.Net, Freeland, Oxfordshire, UK; email: [mcb3@inter- disciplinary.net](mailto:mcb3@inter- disciplinary.net). For further details about the project, please visit: [<http://www.inter-disciplinary.net/at-the-interface/diversity-> recognition/multiculturalism-conflict-and-belonging/](<http://www.inter-disciplinary.net/at-the-interface/diversity-> recognition/multiculturalism-conflict-and-belonging/).

The Lucas Centre for African Studies and the University of Leeds will host a two-day conference entitled "Democratization in Africa: Retrospective and Future Prospects", on December 4-5, 2009, at the University of Leeds, UK. The conference will consider questions such as: how do multi-party politics work on the sub-continent and how democratic are African democracies? Does a democratic façade merely conceal authoritarian leadership? Should democracy be seen in exclusively liberal and procedural terms? Conference organizers are Prof. Gordon Crawford and Dr. Gabrielle Lynch. Abstracts should be submitted prior to May 18 to Karen Cereso, LUCAS Administrator; email: [African- Studies@leeds.ac.uk](mailto:African- Studies@leeds.ac.uk). Completed papers should be submitted by November 16.

The Centre Nosophi (Sorbonne-Paris 1), LNS-IUF (Michel de Montaigne- Bordeaux 3) and CEHUM (University of Minho) are organizing a colloquium on the future of multiculturalsm to be held in Paris on 26-27 February 2010\. Speakers include: Catherine Audard, João Cardoso Rosas, Will Kymlicka, Cécile Laborde, Justine Lacroix, Catherine Larrère, Alain Renaut, Daniel Weinstock, and Michel Wieviorka. For more information, see the call for papers: <http://publicreason.net/2009/03/11/cfp-le-multiculturalisme-a-t-il-un-avenir>, or contact the co-organizers Sophie Guérard de Latour (<sguerarddl@gmail.com>) or Roberto Merrill (<nrbmerrill@gmail.com>).

#### 3\. Recent Publications

##### Books (Prices in US\$)

- Abs, Hermann Josef (2009) Learning and Living Democracy: Introducing Quality Assurance of Education for Democratic Citizenship in Schools (Council of Europe) \$78.00
- Angus, Ian (2009) Identity and Justice (University of Toronto Press) \$35.00
- Bakalian, Amy & Mehdi Bozorgmehr (2009) Backlash 9/11: Middle Eastern and Muslim Americans Respond (University of California Press) \$15.80
- Banchoff, Thomas (ed) (2008) Religious Pluralism, Globalization, and World Politics (Oxford UP) \$24.95
- Banks, James (ed) (2009) Routledge International Companion to Multicultural Education (Routledge) \$170.00
- Blattberg, Charles (2009) Patriotic Elaborations: Essays in Practical Philosophy (McGill-Queen's UP) \$27.50
- Bob, Clifford (ed) (2008) The International Struggle for New Human Rights (University of Pennsylvania Press) \$45.00
- Brancati, Dawn (2009) Peace by Design: Managing Intrastate Conflict through Decentralization (Oxford UP) \$77.64
- Brock, Gillian (2009) Global Justice: A Cosmopolitan Account (Oxford University Press) \$45
- Bromell, David (2008) Ethnicity, Identity and Public Policy: Critical Perspectives on Multiculturalism (Institute of Policy Studies, Wellington NZ)
- Cameron, David & Richard Simeon (eds) (2009) Language Matters: How Canadian Voluntary Associations Manage French and English (UBC Press) \$85.00
- Chavez, Leo R. (2008) The Latino Threat: Constructing Immigrants, Citizens and Nations (Stanford University Press) \$17.56
- Chen, Cheng (2007) The Prospects for Liberal Nationalism in Post-Leninist States (Pennsylvania State University Press) \$55.00
- Ciprut, Jose (ed) (2009) The Future of Citizenship (MIT Press) \$30.21
- Council of Europe (2009) National Minorities: Breath of Diversity, Breath of Europe (Council of Europe Press) \$46.00
- Council of Europe (2008) Policies and Practices for Teaching Sociocultural Diversity - A Survey Report (Council of Europe Press) \$30.00
- Council of Europe (2009) Teaching Democracy: A Collection of Models for Democratic Citizenship and Human Rights Education (Council of Europe Press) \$38.00
- Dinhan, Adam, Robert Furbey & Vivien Lowndes (eds) (2009) Faith in the Public Realm: Controversies, Policies and Practices (Policy Press) \$45.00
- D'Cruz, Carolyn (2008) Identity Politics in Deconstruction: Calculating with the Incalculable (Ashgate) \$99.95
- Dwyer, Claire & Carlonie Bressy (eds) (2008) New Geographies of Race and Racism (Ashgate) \$124.95
- Earnest, David C. (2009) Old Nations, New Voters: Nationalism, Transnationalism, and Democracy in the Era of Global Migration (State University of New York Press) \$29.95
- Edyvane, Derek (2007) Community and Conflict: The Sources of Liberal Solidarity (Palgrave Macmillan) \$74.95
- Elstub, Stephen (2008) Towards a Deliberative and Associational Democracy (Edinburgh University Press) \$100.00
- Evrigenis, Ioannis (2007) Fear of Enemies and Collective Action (Cambridge University Press) \$85.00
- Finney, Nissa & Ludi Simpson (2009) Sleepwalking to Segregation? Challenging Myths about Race and Migration (Policy Press) \$28.95
- Fossum, John Erik & Johanne Poirier (eds) (2009) The Ties That Bind: Accommodating Diversity in Canada and the European Union (Peter Lang) \$54.95
- Gibson, Gordon (2009) A New Look at Canadian Indian Policy: Respect the Collective, Promote the Individual (Fraser Institute) \$35.00
- Hasan, Zoya (2008) Politics of Inclusion: Caste, Minority, and Representation in India (Oxford UP) \$36.79
- Goldberg, David Theo (2008) The Threat of Race: Reflections on Racial Neoliberalism (Wily-Blackwell) \$31.45
- Grillo, Ralph (ed) (2008) The Family in Question: Immigrant and Ethnic Minorities in Multicultural Europe (IMISCOE/Amsterdam University Press) \$49.95
- Hudson, Wayne & Steven Slaughter (2007) Globalisation and Citizenship: the Transnational Challenge (Routledge) \$150.00
- Iceland, John (2009) Where We Live Now: Immigration and Race in the United States (University of California Press) \$14.36
- Jakobsen, Janet & Ann Pellegrini (eds) (2008) Secularisms (Duke University Press) \$22.45
- Johnson, Kristen Deede (2007) Theology, Political Theory, and Pluralism: Beyond Tolerance and Pluralism (Cambridge UP) \$104.00
- Joppke, Christian (2009) Veil: Mirror of Identity (Polity) \$22.95
- Kalyvas, Stathis, Ian Shapiro & Tarek Masoud (eds) (2008) Order, Conflict, and Violence (Cambridge UP) \$33.00
- Koff, Harlan (2008) Fortress Europe or a Europe of Fortresses? The Integration of Migrants in Western Europe (Peter Lang) \$66.95
- Krause, Sharon (2008) Civil Passions: Moral Sentiment and Democratic Deliberation (Princeton UP) \$29.95
- Kucukcan, Talip and Veyis Gungor (eds) (2009) Turks in Europe: Culture, Identity and Integration (Amsterdam: Turkevi Research Centre)
- Laborde, Cecil (2008) Critical Republicanism: The Hijab Controversy and Political Philosophy (Oxford UP) \$43.55
- Macdonald, Terry (2008) Global Stakeholder Democracy: Power and Representation Beyond Liberal States (Oxford UP) \$90.00
- Maddison, Sarah (2009) Black Politics: Inside the complexity of Aboriginal political culture (Allen and Unwin) \$35.00
- Medda-Windischer, Roberta (2009) Old and New Minorities: Reconciling diversity and cohesion. A human rights model for minority integration (Nomos) \$69.80
- Moeckli, Daniel (2008) Human Rights and Non-discrimination in the "War on Terror" (Oxford UP) \$125.00
- Mushaben, Joyce Marie (2008) The Changing Faces of Citizenship: Integration and Mobilization Among Ethnic Minorities in Germany (Berghahn Books) \$92.40
- Norris, Pippa (2008) Driving Democracy: Do Power-Sharing Institutions Work? (Cambridge UP) \$24.99
- Nowicka, Magdelena & Maria Rovisco (eds) (2009) Cosmopolitanism in Practice (Global Connections) (Ashgate) \$99.95
- Pathak, Pathik (2008) The Future of Multicultural Britain (Edinburgh UP) \$37.50
- Puskas, Tunde (2009) We Belong to Them: Narratives of Belonging, Homeland, and Nationhood in Territorial and Non-Territorial Minority Settings (Peter Lang) \$50.95
- Ramakrishnan, S. Karthick & Irene Bloemraad (eds) (2008) Civic Hopes and Political Realities: Immigrants, Community Organizations, and Political Engagement (Russell Sage Foundation) \$47.50
- Rostbøll, Christian (2009) Deliberative Freedom: Deliberative Democracy as Critical Theory (State University of New York Press) \$28.95
- Sadurski, Wojciech (2008) Equality and Legitimacy (Oxford UP) \$80.00
- Schain, Martin A. (2008) The Politics of Immigration In France, Britain, and the United States: A Comparative Study (Palgrave Macmillan) \$29.95
- Scholz, Sally (2008) Political Solidarity (Pennsylvania State University Press) \$55.00
- Slocum-Bradley, Nikki R. (ed) (2008) Promoting Conflict or Peace through Identity (Ashgate) \$99.95
- Taylor, Rupert (ed) (2009) Consociational Theory: McGarry/O'Leary and the Northern Ireland Conflict (Routledge) \$160.00
- Weissbrodt, David (2009) The Human Rights of Non-Citizens (Oxford UP) \$96.00
- Weller, Marc (2008) Escaping the Self-Determination Trap (Martinus Nijhoff/Brill) \$62.09
- Weller, Marc & Stefan Wolff (eds) (2008) Internationalizing State-Building after Violent Conflict: Bosnia Ten Years after Dayton (Routledge) \$150.00
- Yurdakul, Gokce (2009) From Guest Workers into Muslims: The Transformation of Turkish Immigrant Associations in Germany (Cambridge Scholars) \$59.99

#### Journal Special Issues

A recent issue of Political Psychology is a special issue on the topic "Political Reconciliation" (Vol. 30, No.2, April 2009). Articles by David Roman & Suzanne Choi, Michael Wohl & Nyla Branscombe, Craig Blatz, Karina Schumann, Michael Ross, and other authors are included.

A recent issue of the Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies (JEMS) is a special issue on the topic "Muslims and the State in the Post-9/11 West" (Vol. 35, No. 3, March 2009). An introductory article by Erik Bleich precedes essays by Shamit Saggar, Jytte Klausen, Frank Buijs, John Bowen and Christian Joppke.

The latest issue of Ethnic and Racial Studies contains several essays with a general focus on "Gender, Race and Religion" (Vol. 32, No. 2; February 2009). Articles by Martin Blumer & John Solomos, Anna Korteweg & Yurdakul Gökçe, Judith McDonnell & Cileine de Lourenço, Gabriela Sandoval, and other authors are included.

A special issue of European Journal of Political Theory is dedicated to the topic "Recognition: Philosophy and Politics" (Vol. 8, No. 1, 2009). Edited by Cillian McBride and Jonathan Seglow, the issue contains articles by Arto Laitinen, Heikki Ikäheimo, Nicholas H. Smith, Jonathan Seglow, Maeve Cooke and others.

A recent issue of the journal Metaphilosophy is on the theme "Global Democracy and Exclusion" (Vol. 40, No. 1, January 2009). An introduction by Ronald Tinnevelt & Helder De Schutter precedes articles by Eric Cavallero, John Exdell, Carol C. Gould, Deen Chatterjee, Daniel Weinstock and others.

A special issue of International Journal on Multicultural Societies is dedicated to the topic of "Citizenship Tests in a Post-National Era" (Vol. 10, No. 1, 2008). Guest-edited by Sue Wright, this issue's essays looks at citizenship tests in Denmark, France, the UK and the Netherlands.

A recent special issue of American Behavioral Scientist is on the theme "Indigenous Peoples: Globalization, Resistance & Revitalization" (Vol. 51, No. 12, August 2008). Guest editor for this issue is James V. Fenelon. Articles by Duane Champagne, Luis Berruecos, Ismael Abu-Saad, C.R. Bijoy, Claudio González-Parra & Jeanne Simon, and several other authors are included.

The latest issue of the journal Theoria is dedicated to the theme "The Limits of Deliberative Democracy" (Vol. 55, No. 117, December 2008). Deliberative democracy seeks to reinvigorate ancient virtues of participatory democracy in light of the so-called "linguistic turn" in philosophy. Articles by Kenneth Baynes, Gerald F. Gaus, Alison Kadlec, Steven D. Maloney, Joshua A. Miller, and Judith Squires explore these issues, followed by three book reviews.

A special issue of the journal Social Politics: International Studies in Gender, State and Society is dedicated to the topic "The Veil: Debating Citizenship, Gender, and Religious Diversity" (Vol. 15, No. 4, Winter 2008). An introduction by Sevgi Kiliç, Sawitri Saharso and Birgit Sauer precedes essays by Nora Gresch, Leila Hadj-Abdou, Sieglinde Rosenberger & Birgit Sauer; Sevgi Kiliç; Sawitri Saharso & Doutje Lettinga; Susan B. Rottmann & Myra Marx Ferree; and Ayse Saktanber & Gül Çorbaciolu.

A recent issue of Studies in Ethnicity and Nationalism contains essays from the 2008 conference on "Nationalism, East and West: Civic and Ethnic Conceptions of Nationhood" (Vol. 8, No. 3, 2008).

A mini-symposium on the topic "American Political Development through the Lens of Race" is contained in a recent issue of Political Research Quarterly (Vol. 61, 2008). Articles by Julie Novkov, Edmund Fong, Daniel M. Mulcare, Desmond S. King & Rogers M. Smith, and Joel Olson are included.

A special issue of Ethnopolitics is dedicated to the topic "Federalism, Regional Autonomy and Conflict" (Vol. 8, No. 1, 2009). The issue is guest edited by Graham Brown and Rachael Diprose, and contains articles by John McGarry & Brendan O'Leary, Stefan Wolff, Rotimi Suberu, Katherine Adeney, and the guest editors.

The Journal of Curriculum Studies has published a special issue dedicated to citizenship education curricula (Vol. 41, No. 2, April 2009). An introductory essay called "Citizenship Education Curricula: The Changes and Challenges Presented by Global and European Integration", written by Avril Keating, Debora Hinderliter Ortloff, and Stavroula Philippou precedes seven articles covering several countries and regions of the EU.

The sixth volume of the European Yearbook of Minority Issues has now been released. The EYMI provides a review of developments in minority-majority relations in Europe, combining analysis, commentary and documentation in relation to conflict management, international legal developments and domestic legislation affecting minorities in Europe. Part I contains scholarly articles, and features special focus sections on Cross-border Cooperation and Minorities in Eastern Europe and Diversity Management and Integration. Part II contains reports on the implementation of international instruments for the protection of minorities as well as new developments in relation to the legal protection of minorities at the national level. The European Yearbook is edited in collaboration with the Minorities and Regional Autonomies Department of the European Academy Bozen/Bolzano. For more information, go to the ECMI website (Yearbook Section): <http://www.ecmi.de/rubrik/55/european+yearbook/>.

Dissensus, a new schorlarly review of political philosophy, has been launched by the Research Unit in political philosophy of the University of Liege (Belgium). The focus of the first release is "Mondialisation et cosmopolitisme" with contributions of E. Tassin, E. Delruelle, T. Berns, L. de Sutter, J. Allard, M. Maesschalck, T. Negri, G. Bras and T. Gontier. Dissensus is available online at <http://www.philopol.ulg.ac.be/dissensus.html>.

#### 4\. [Call for Papers]

The journal Romanitas has issues a call for papers for its April 2010 special issue on "Language preservation, rescue, and revival". It seeks articles reporting on language preservation and revival projects in speech communities where a Romance language is a factor. The language that is being rescued may be a Romance variety or an indigenous language that is threatened by a hegemonic Romance language. Articles should be written in Spanish, French, Portuguese or English. Please send contributions (no more than 30 pages including bibliography and appendices) in electronic form to Dr. Alicia Pousada (English Department, UPR, Río Piedras) at: <pousada.a@gmail.com>. Authors should follow the Romanitas style protocol which can be found at: <http://humanidades.uprrp.edu/romanitas/english/style.html>. The deadline for submission is November 30, 2009.

The journal Essays in Philosophy has issued a call for papers for its upcoming special issue on the theme "Collective Responsibility" (Vol. 10, No. 2, June 2009). Questions involving collective responsibility challenge us to understand the very nature of responsibility, especially in regard to the type of entity that can be said to be responsible for an event, action, or its consequences. Additionally, this topic raises questions regarding the nature of group membership and its effects for individuals. The editors of Essays in Philosophy invite submissions that serve to expand the philosophical literature on questions of this nature. The special issue editor is Loren Cannon, of Humboldt State University. All submissions should be sent before March 1st to the General Editor, at: <mfg1@humboldt.edu>.

The editors of the periodical "Monist" have issued two calls for papers that may interest newsletter readers. The first is for an upcoming special issue on the theme "Cosmopolitanism: For and Against" (Vol. 94, No. 4, 2011). According to cosmopolitanism, every person has global stature as the ultimate unit of moral concern and is therefore entitled to equal respect and consideration. This issue is intended as a forum for debates about the pros and cons of cosmopolitanism. It will address questions such as: What does cosmopolitanism require by way of obligations of justice? What kinds of reforms to global and local institutions do cosmopolitans require? Do we have further, more demanding, obligations to compatriots or to family members? Do non-cosmopolitan theories provide a better account of our obligations and allow us a more useful framework for mediating the interests of compatriots and non-compatriots? The deadline for submissions is October 31, 2010\. Advisory Editor for this issue is Gillian Brock, University of Auckland, email: <g.brock@auckland.ac.nz> The call for papers is available on the Monist website: <http://monist.buffalo.edu/callsforpapers.html#Cosmopolitanism>.

The second is for a Monist issue on "The Dilemmas of Multiculturalism" (Vol. 95, No. 1, January 2012). The Advisory Editor for the issue is H. E. Baber (University of San Diego, email: baber@sandiego.edu). The issue will be concerned with dilemmas that arise when cultural norms of minority communities conflict with norms of the larger society. To what extent are liberal democracies obliged to accommodate illiberal communities whose policies and practices constrain the options of their members? Is multiculturalism bad for women insofar as traditional cultures promote practices and prescribe roles for women that are, by Western standards, restrictive or oppressive? Is multiculturalism good for minority communities? Is there a conflict of interest between cultural preservationists and those individuals who would prefer to assimilate into the wider culture? Do individuals in minority communities have an obligation to identify with ancestral cultures? Are efforts to maintain traditional languages, practices and traditions of necessity in the interest of members of these societies? Do such efforts preserve a culture or thwart its natural development? Contributors are invited to address these and related questions posed by multiculturalism. The deadline for submissions: January 31, 2011\. For details, visit the Monist website: <http://monist.buffalo.edu/callsforpapers.html#Multiculturalism>.

The journal Hagar: Studies in Culture, Polity and Identities has issued a call for papers for their upcoming special issue on the topic "Decolonization Reconsidered: Rebirths, Enclosures and Erasures". The process of decolonization redefined the status of territorial borders established by European powers in Africa and Asia, but it also involved a reorganization of ideological, cultural, and social border regimes. The establishment of independent states in postcolonial territories was bolstered by the nationalization of resources, political institutions, cultures and consciousness. This special issue is dedicated to a re-evaluation of the notion of "decolonization," as well as narratives used to describe it. The editors seek submissions that will enhance our understanding of decolonization unfolding in specific locations, as well as a worldwide concept and phenomena. Please send papers to Ruth Ginio (<rginio@bgu.ac.il>) or Lynn Schler (<lynnsch@bgu.ac.il>) before April 15, 2009\. For instructions on manuscript preparation, see: <http://www.bgu.ac.il/hagar/article/submission.htm>.

Essays are welcome for a new e-journal called "Sextures: e-Journal for Sexualities, Cultures and Politics", with an inaugural special issue scheduled for September 2009\. The special issue is dedicated to the theme; "Querying Sexual Citizenships: Difference, Social Imaginaries, and European Citizenship". Citizenship can be understood as the expression of social, cultural, political and economic rights, and active involvement in the organizational life of a political community. Yet in most countries of Central and Eastern Europe, these concepts are still tied to a hetero-patriarchal social imaginary, in which the nation continues to be metaphorically considered the exclusive home of the traditional heterosexual family. In this context, Sextures invites theoretical, conceptual and empirical essays from scholars of all disciplines (philosophy, women's studies, gay and lesbian studies, Slavonic/Eastern European/ Balkan studies, cultural studies, sociology, geography, anthropology, political science, history, and comparative literatures) on topics related to gender, sexuality and citizenship in post-socialist Europe. This issue will focus on Central and Eastern Europe, but all submissions are welcome which cover issues of sexual citizenship elsewhere in the world. Submissions should be no longer than 8000 words. Please consult our guide for contributors when preparing your manuscripts. The guide can be found at <http://www.sextures.net/guidelines-for-contributors>. Deadline for submission of papers is 2 June 2009\. Inquiries and manuscripts for this special issue should be sent to Alexander Lambevski, Founding Editor and Publisher, Sextures; email: <alex@sextures.net>; <editor@sextures.net>; webpage: <http://www.sextures.net>.

#### 5\. [Related Research Projects]

A new research project known as "EUCITAC" (Access to citizenship in Europe) has been established, which will run from January 2009 to June 2010\. The EUCITAC project will establish a specialised comparative European observatory on citizenship laws and policies in the 27 Member States of the EU and neighbouring countries, which will be nested within a major new web platform European Democracy Observatory (EUDO) at the Robert Schuman Centre for Advanced Studies (European University Institute) as well as within the EUROPA institute site at Edinburgh University. EUCITAC will provide a unique and comprehensive information resource on citizenship in Europe for governments, researchers, migrant organisations and NGOs. It will identify major trends and problems in citizenship policies as a basis for informed policies and community action. For information, please contact <EUCITAC@ed.ac.uk>, or visit: <http://www.iue.it/RSCAS//Research/EUDO/s-o%20citizenship.shtml>.

The Centre for Interdisciplinary Research at the University of Bielefeld has established a new research group on "E Pluribus Unum? Ethnic Identities in Transnational Integration Processes in the Americas". It will explore contemporary constructions and uses of ethnicity in North, Central and South America against the background of intensifying transnationalism. Ethnicity and identity politics will be examined in the inter-American context from perspectives like that of Pierre Bourdieu. The main organizers are Sebastian Thies (Blielefeld), Josef Raab (Duisburg-Essen), and Olaf Kaltmeier (Bielefeld). For more information, visit the project's website at: [<http://www.uni-> bielefeld.de/(en)/ZIF/FG/2008Pluribus/einfuehrung.html](<http://www.uni-> bielefeld.de/(en)/ZIF/FG/2008Pluribus/einfuehrung.html). Inquiries about this research group can be sent to research assistants Daniela Opitz (email: <Daniela.opitz@uni-bielefeld.de>) and Astrid Haas (email: <astrid.haas@uni-bielefeld.de>); tel: +49 521 106-2781.

#### 6\. Internet Resources

A recent issue of Boston Review contains a symposium on Joseph Carens's work on the ethics of immigration. In his article, Carens argues for amnesty for irregular migrants, followed by 16 comments and a response by Carens. The web-link to this special issue is <http://bostonreview.net/current_issue/>.

Between autumn 2007 and spring 2008, a series of national training seminars financed by the European Commission were conducted under the banner of "National Non-Discrimination and Diversity Management Seminars". That seminar series brought together 1100 participants from NGOs, and close to 300 participants from trade unions, for training in national non-discrimination seminars to raise awareness and understanding of national legislation and policy. The key tools for these seminars include training manuals for NGOs, which are available at the first web-link below. Additionally, national reports summarizing activities and findings in each country are found at the second web-link. <http://ec.europa.eu/social/main.jsp?catId=427&langId=en&moreDocuments=yes>; <http://ec.europa.eu/social/main.jsp?catId=667&langId=en&moreDocuments=yes>.

#### 7\. Courses and Fellowships

A summer academy on "Minorities in Eastern Europe: Minority Politics and Minority Conflicts in Eastern Europe from the 19th to the 21st Centuries" will take place at Leibniz University, Hannover Summer Academy, from August 30- September 13, 2009\. The two-week academy will offer varied opportunities, organized in cooperation with Eastern European partner universities. Presentations; seminars; an international colloquium for PhD students; simulation of a "fictitious" minority conflict; films; excursions; and an interesting cultural program are included in the curriculum. This academy is directed at PhD students and those in advanced stages of a master's program. Applications should be sent by May 15, including letter of application, CV, letter of recommendation from a university teacher, and proof of skills in German or English (DSH or TOEFL). For specific details, contact; Dr. Malte Rolf, Leibniz University, Hannover, Historisches Seminar (<Rolf@hist.uni-hannover.de>), or Dr. Soren Philipps, Leibniz University, Hannover, European Studies (<s.philipps@ipw.uni-hannover.de>). Application forms and program information (English & German) can be found on the following websites: <http://www.hist.uni-hannover.de/sommerakademie/minderheiten-in-osteuropa/> and <http://www.europe.uni-hannover.de/index.php?id=430&L=0>.

A consortium of public and private sponsors in Denmark has recently established the "Global Dialogue Prize", which acknowledges outstanding achievements in the advancement and application of intercultural value research. The prize (in the amount of 500,000 DKK, or roughly \$80,000 US) is awarded biannually to individuals, institutions, and organizations from around the globe. The Prize is allocated to a person, institution, or organization to honor excellence in research on intercultural dialogue and value studies, as well as outstanding achievements in applying such research to promote the global dialogue on values and to increase intercultural understanding and competence. The prize is addressed to scholars and researchers in the humanities and other fields of scholarship and science relevant to intercultural value research, as well as to practitioners applying such research. The award primarily will honour research that, via social engagement and research communication, has created a visible precedent for the power of dialogical praxis: praxis in international management, praxis in responsible journalism, praxis in intercultural education, and praxis in organizing intercultural grassroots activities. The Prize is part of the larger Global Dialogue Project, whose academic organization lies with the research unit ICON (Interculturality, Conflict, and Value Studies) at Aarhus University in Denmark. For more information about the Prize, including nomination procedures, see [www.globaldialogueprize.org](http://www.globaldialogueprize.org).

The Joint Master Programme in European Integration and Regionalism (2009- 10) organized jointly by the University of Graz (Austria), the University of Zagreb (Croatia) and the Autonomous University of Barcelona (Spain) in cooperation with the European Academy of Bolzano (Italy) and the European Institute of Public Administration (Luxembourg and Barcelona) is a programme designed especially for civil servants, practitioners and academics. The programme is organized in 5 different modules covering the topics of the Enlarged European Union; Law of the European Union; Governance, Public Administration Reform and Economics; Regional Affairs, Policies, Structures and Management; Human Rights, Minorities and Diversity Management; and taking place in 5 different cities: Graz (Austria); Luxembourg; Zagreb (Croatia); Barcelona (Spain) and Bolzano/Bozen (Italy). The application process is open until 15 June 2009\. Applications can be made either to the full Programme or to single modules. Further information about the Joint Programme and the application forms are available at <http://www.eurac.edu/meir>, or contact Verena Wisthaler by email: <meir@eurac.edu>.

---

### Announcements

If you would like to announce a new research project, publication, call for papers, or upcoming conference in a future issue of this newsletter, please contact us at <cded@post.queensu.ca>, or you can write to the Forum for Philosophy and Public Policy, Department of Philosophy, Queen's University, Watson Hall 313, Kingston Ontario K7L 3N6, Canada. Fax: 613-533-6545.

Special thanks to Michael Kocsis for research help, and to Lise Charlebois for help with the distribution of the newsletter.
