# Citizenship, Democracy and Ethnocultural Diversity Newsletter No. 53, Summer 2009

## _Queen's Forum for Philosophy and Public Policy_

### Contents

- [1\. [Introduction]](#1-introduction)
- [2\. [Upcoming Conferences]](#2-upcoming-conferences)
- [3\. Recent Publications](#3-recent-publications)
  - [Books (Prices in US\$)](#books-prices-in-us)
  - [Journal Special Issues](#journal-special-issues)
- [4\. Call for Papers](#4-call-for-papers)

#### 1\. [Introduction]

The Forum for Philosophy and Public Policy at Queen's University is organizing a multi-year, research project on citizenship, democracy and minority rights in multiethnic states, under the direction of Prof. Will Kymlicka. As part of this project, the Forum distributes a quarterly newsletter updating recent developments in the field, of which this is the fifty-third issue. We hope that it will be of interest to anyone working in the field, whether in academia, public service, or non- governmental organizations.

If you would like to be added to the mailing list for this newsletter, please contact us at <cded@queensu.ca>. Back-issues of the newsletter are posted on the Web on Will Kymlicka's home-page: <http://www.queensu.ca/cded/news.html>

#### 2\. [Upcoming Conferences]

In partnership with the International Metropolis Project Canada and the Australian Multicultural Foundation, the Monash Institute for the Study of Global Movements is hosting the "Refugee Futures Conference 2009" on September 10- 12, 2009 at the Monash University Prato Centre (Prato, Italy). The conference will canvass one of the most important issues of the modern world ­ the increasing flow of refugees and asylum seekers between countries in the wake of continuing pockets of conflict and war. For more information, visit: <http://www.monash.edu.au/cemo/refugeefutures2009>

The 14th International Metropolis Conference, on the theme of "National Responses to Cultural Diversity", will be held on 14-18 September 2009 in Copenhagen, Denmark. For more information, visit the website at: <http://www.metropolis2009.org/registration/index.html>

A conference on the topic of "The Ethics of Military Intervention: What Can We Learn from the Modern European Classics?" will be held at Columbia University in NYC on September 18-19, 2009\. The conference will bring together a distinguished group of American and European scholars in international relations and political theory. Papers will seek to illuminate and reconstruct the thought of some of the most influential modern European thinkers on questions of military intervention and empire. Confirmed participants include Michael Doyle, Pierre Hassner, Andrew Hurrell, and Richard Tuck. The complete conference program can be downloaded at: <http://www.columbia.edu/cu/polisci/ance/militaryethics.html>

The third annual law conference of the Canadian Constitution Foundation will be on theme of "Race, Religion, Equality and Freedom: Current Canadian Legal Controversies". It will be held at the Best Western Primrose Hotel in Toronto the weekend of October 2-4, 2009\. For further information, visit the conference website at: <http://www.canadianconstitutionfoundation.ca/annuallawconference.php#top>

The International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance (International IDEA), in partnership with the Non-Aligned Movement Centre for South South Technical Cooperation (NAM Centre), is organizing a symposium on 12-15 October 2009 in Jakarta, Indonesia on the theme of "Constitutional Design for Diversity and Conflict". The symposium will draw on the multidisciplinary expertise and practical experience of constitution builders from South and Southeast Asia, with sizeable representation of viewpoints from Latin America and Africa. For more information, visit: <http://www.constitutionnet.org/en/jakarta09>.

York University (Toronto, Canada) will be hosting a conference on "Towards a Democratic Cosmopolis: Diaspora, Citizenship, and Recognition", on 21-24 October 2009\. The conference will provide a unique opportunity to understand the emerging cosmopolitan realities of contemporary Toronto and other cosmopolitan cities, such as London, New York, Honk Kong, Buenos Aires, and Paris. The changing dynamic of migrations and immigrations in cities like Toronto are essential for contextualizing discussions of citizenship, recognition, and identity. The conference will bring together interdisciplinary scholars to discuss and debate the values of 'democratic cosmopolitanism'. One of the questions to be addressed by the conference is the extent to which members of resettled groups ­ both migrants/immigrants as well as their descendants ­ feel they are part of a larger community (eg., as Canadians) in electoral participation as well as other aspects of exercising citizenship. Furthermore, do those resettled in Toronto and other cities shape their identities and experience recognition as citizens in terms of a sense of "place" and belonging or does a new form of global citizenship arise as a consequence of multicentred Diasporas and does it need to be integrated into our understanding of an emerging cosmopolitanism? What kinds of identities have been formed, how connected are they to each other within a community of origin and resettlement, and how do they see themselves as fitting into a larger community? Do ethnocultural groups feel they are recognized? Does settlement and life in large cities help them in terms of available ethnic spaces and places and do broader societal values of a cosmopolitan nature promote a sense of belonging and inclusion? The conference is part of the series of Diaspora, Citizenship, and Recognition. For more information, please visit our conference website: <http://www.yorku.ca/cosmop/>

The 11th International Conference on Ethics Across the Curriculum will focus on the theme of "Teaching Citizenship and Civility". The conference will be held at the Rochester Institute of Technology (Rochester New York) on November 12- 15, 2009\. It is a hallmark of civility within a society that those of opposing points of view can reasonably discuss their differences and find common ground amidst their disagreements. The concept of citizenship may encompass a wide variety of ethical actions (such as volunteerism or philanthropy) and political relations (such as nationalism or globalism). Teaching students to become civil citizens requires consideration of the content and practice of citizenship, in all its forms. Even in classes where the content is far removed from what seems relevant to a civic education, the way in which the class is taught -- how disagreements about answers are resolved - can teach lessons essential to civility. Teaching civility, in all its forms, is an education across the curriculum. For more information, visit the Society for Ethics Across the Curriculum's website: <http://www.rit.edu/cla/ethics/seac/conferences.html>. Submissions (either papers or abstracts) should be formatted for blind review and sent by September 15th 2009 to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Society, Donna Werner, <DWerner@stlcc.edu>. The Society publishes Teaching Ethics, and papers for conferences may be considered for publication either in that journal or in a possible anthology on teaching citizenship and civility.

The 10th International Conference of ABECAN (Brazilian Association for Canadian Studies) will be held on the theme "Diversity and Collective Imaginary Dialogues" from November 17-20, 2009, at the Federal University of Goiás, Goiânia, Brazil. To download the conference program or to register, visit website <http://congresso2009.abecan.org.br/en/index.php>, or send an email to <congresso2009@abecan.org.br>

The annual Networking European Citizenship Education (NECE) conference will be on the theme of "The Impact of Citizenship and Cultural Education on Social Cohesion". It will be held in Vilnius, Lithuania, on Dec. 3-5, 2009\. The conference will seek creative impulses for pan-European citizenship education. A further object of the conference is to strengthen the impact of pan-European citizenship education on social processes within the diverse landscape of social and civil organizations in Europe. A Call for Projects has been launched to gather outstanding and innovative working models, concepts and projects or new didactic materials for teaching citizenship and cultural education for the purpose of strengthening social cohesion. To apply for the conference, please complete the registration form at: <http://www.lab-concepts.de/anmeldung/nece-vilnius/> before September 6th, 2009\. For more information, visit the website: <http://www.bpb.de/veranstaltungen/Y7JZIT,0,The_Impact_of_Citizenship_and_Cultural_Education_on_Social_Cohesion.html>, or write to <nece-vilnius@lab-concepts.de>

A Research Workshop on "Diaspora and Citizenship: European and Asian Perspectives" will be held on January 15, 2010 at the University of Manchester. Although national diasporas are not a new phenomenon, their implications for national solidarity and state citizenship have become more prevalent in recent decades. There has been much debate as to how immigrants participate in the host society, but less discussion of how diaspora communities interact with their home state. This workshop has been organised to address that gap. Its unique contribution to the debate will be a comparative analysis across Europe, Southeast and East Asia. The workshop sets out to explore the specific effects of this dynamic on national identity and citizenship in the homeland. Possible issues to be addressed include: How does nation-building in the home state deal with diaspora? Is it included in an ethnic construction of the nation, or does its existence tend to be downplayed? What are the consequences for citizenship policies in the home state? Do members of a diaspora retain the right to vote? Can they acquire dual nationality? What does this mean for conceptions of national loyalty and belonging? How have homeland policies and attitudes changed over time? How do governments and political parties seek to appeal to or co-opt diaspora concerns into their policy-making? To what extent do diaspora communities retain the ability to influence politics in the homeland through lobbying, investment or remittances? How do examples of state-diaspora relations challenge our understanding of such established concepts as the nation-state, national identity, citizenship, diaspora, and belonging? Invited participants will be offered some financial support to attend the workshop. Please send 200-300 word abstracts to <claire.sutherland@durham.ac.uk> by 15th September 2009\. Co- convenors: Dr Elena Barabantseva, University of Manchester and Dr Claire Sutherland, University of Durham.

The Centre for Ethnicity and Citizenship at the University of Bristol will be hosting a conference on "The Politics of Misrecognition: An Interdisciplinary Conference" on 22-23 January 2010\. The keynote speaker is Axel Honneth. The conference is organized by Wendy Martineau (University of Bristol), Nasar Meer (University of Southampton) and Simon Thompson (University of the West of England, Bristol), and is supported by the Economic and Social Research Council, the Political Studies Association and the Department of Politics at Bristol University. For more information, visit: <http://www.bristol.ac.uk/sociology/ethnicitycitizenship/events.html>. To propose a paper, please submit a 250 word abstract to <simon.thompson@uwe.ac.uk> by 11 September 2009.

The Faculty of Political Sciences and International Relations of the Universidad Nacional de Rosario (Argentina), and the Transformative Learning Centre (University of Toronto) are organizing an international conference on "Deepening Democracy as a Way of Life: Challenges for Participatory Democracy and Citizenship Education in the 21st Century", which will take place May 13-16, 2010 in Rosario, an Argentine city with rich experiences of democratic participation and citizenship education. The conference follows up on two previous conferences (in 2003 and 2008) organized at the University of Toronto. Conference organizers would like to share creative and progressive practices, past or present, of transformative citizenship learning and democratic participation in different contexts. This includes experiences in institutions of formal and non- formal education, civil society organizations, governments, and workplaces. We ask for presentations that analyze both the strengths and weaknesses of initiatives, locate them in their social and historical contexts, and, to the extent possible, propose ways to correct their shortcomings. The congress will include researchers, academics, urban planners, community organizers, community development workers, and people engaged in primary, secondary, and university education. We also welcome any community members, civil society organizations, and state institutions who are committed to local democracy and active citizenship. For more information, visit: <http://www.congresorosario2010.com.ar>

An international, interdisciplinary conference on "Beyond Citizenship: Feminism and the Transformation of Belonging" will be held from 30 June to 2 July 2010 at Birkbeck, University of London. The conference is organised by FEMCIT (an EU FP6 integrated research project on "Gendered citizenship in multicultural Europe: the impact of contemporary women's movements"), in collaboration with the Birkbeck Institute for Social Research, and Rokkansenteret at the University of Bergen. Confirmed speakers include Sara Ahmed, Davina Cooper, Antke Engel, Katherine Gibson, Julie Graham, Rebecca Gomperts, Ranjana Khanna, Gail Lewis, Lynne Segal, Margrit Shildrick, Birte Siim, Gloria Wekker, and Anna Yeatman. The language of citizenship has, in recent years, been mobilized by feminists to articulate a wide range of claims and demands. The notions of economic, political, social, cultural, sexual/ bodily, and intimate citizenship, for example, have all been developed and explored in terms of their normative potential and their actual realization. But, can the concept of citizenship encompass the transformations that feminist politics seek? What are the restrictions and exclusions of contemporary forms and practices of citizenship? How does the concept of citizenship deal with power, inequality, and difference? What are the problems with framing our desires and visions for the future in terms of citizenship in a globalizing world of migration, mobility, armed conflict, economic crisis and climate change? We invite proposals for papers that address these questions and the broad theme of the conference. We particularly welcome papers which explore the interface between the feminist academy and feminist activism, and which are interdisciplinary and innovative in method and approach. Individual paper proposals (max. 200 words) or proposals for panels of three or four related papers (max. 300 words) should be submitted by 1st December 2009 to: abstracts.beyondcitizenship@bbk.ac.uk. For further information about the conference, visit: [http://www.congresorosario2010.com.ar](http://www.bbk.ac.uk/bisr/beyondcitizenship/)

A conference on "Veiled Constellations: The Veil, Critical Theory, Politics, and Contemporary Society" will be held at York University (Toronto, Canada) on June 3-5, 2010, co-sponsored by Departments of Political Science, Sociology and Communication and Culture. The increasing politicization of the veil, made most prominent by conservative and radical secular movements within the EU and by a growing literature that paints the veil as a threat to human rights and/or security, have had an immeasurable effect on inter-cultural exchanges. These secular forms of theorizing and debating have been countered by a concurrent movement, spearheaded by Islamic-minded thinkers: the shrouding of the female form as a variation of patriarchal resistance. Given the amplified visibility of the veil and the growing desire of people to veil and unveil, what kinds of research options can move us beyond this analytical impasse? Have the responses to the liberal, conservative, and Islamic positions on the veil been cogent? What theoretical questions have not yet been asked? What impact has this hitherto insoluble debate had on those who choose everyday to wear the veil? This conference seeks, in the face of these trends, to bring previously unheard views on the veil to the fore. We welcome submissions of all sorts that deal with the issue, including those that take cross-cultural, historical, and/or comparative approaches. We encourage submissions from all disciplines that push the boundaries of creativity and intellectual discussion, and that take a critical and previously unexplored position on the veil. For more information, visit <http://www.veiledconstellations.com/callforpapers.html>. Proposal submissions should be sent by October 1st, 2009 to: <submissions@veiledconstellations.com>

On 10-12 June 2010, the University of Avignon will be hosting a multidisciplinary colloquium on "Cultural Minorities: Expressions and Territories", focusing on cultural minorities and their manifestations in Canada. Cultural minorities are groups that explicitly set themselves apart from the dominant majority culture, thanks to their attitudes, their modes of action and expression and the way they choose to present themselves publicly. The question is whether they fall within the scope of larger international movements. To what extent can they be considered as specifically Canadian? What are their links with similar groups in Europe and the United States, for example? Are they nourished by elements from traditional/indigenous cultures, and, if so, can they give them a new lease of life? Do they give rise to specific stances on identity? Minorities express themselves through different art forms, notably through music and the visual arts, but also through literature and theatre, the latter being a particular focus of the conference. What are the different languages in which they express themselves, what are their codes, their distinguishing features, their affiliations? What is the history of such groups and what are their claims? How are they seen by the dominant culture through the media and within public space? Are they tolerated, encouraged, recuperated? Are they subject to limitations imposed on them? Are they confined to certain territories, connected to certain social spaces or even to specific ethnic groups? Papers may be given in English or in French. The deadline for the submission of abstracts (150 words maximum) is 31 October 2009\. Please send enquiries and proposals for papers to: <patrice.brasseur@univ-avignon.fr>. For more information, visit: [<http://forum.bdp3.com/appels-com-f23/appel-minorits-culturelles-au-canada> - expressions-territoires-avignon-avant-31-oct-t426.htm](<http://forum.bdp3.com/appels-com-f23/appel-minorits-culturelles-au-canada> - expressions-territoires-avignon-avant-31-oct-t426.htm)

#### 3\. Recent Publications

##### Books (Prices in US\$)

- Arnesen, Anne-Lise et al (2009) Policies and practices for teaching sociocultural diversity - Concepts, principles and challenges in teacher education (Council of Europe) \$30.
- Bell, Mark (2009) Racism and Equality in the European Union (Oxford UP) \$90.
- Benhabib, Seyla, Judith Resnik (eds.) (2009) Migrations and Mobilities: Citizenship, Borders and Gender (NYU Press) \$22.
- Bramadat, Paul and Matthias Koenig (eds.) (2009) International Migration and the Governance of Religious Diversity (McGill-Queen's UP) \$39.95.
- Evans, Malcolm (2009) Manual on the wearing of religious symbols in public areas (Council of Europe) \$50.
- Dhamoon, Rita (2009) Identity/Difference Politics: How Difference is Produced and Why it Matters (UBC Press, 2009) \$85.
- De Feyter, Koen and George Pavlakos (2008) The Tension Between Group Rights and Human Rights: A Multidisciplinary Approach (Hart) \$95.
- Hogan-Brun, Gabriele, Clare Mar-Molinero and Patrick Stevenson (2009) Discourses on Language and Integration: Critical perspectives on language testing regimes in Europe (John Benjamins) \$135.
- Extra, Guus, Massimiliano Spotti, and Piet Van Avermaet (2009) Language Testing, Migration and Citizenship: Cross-National Perspectives (Continuum) \$132.99.
- Geschiere, Peter (2009) The Perils of Belonging: Autochthony, Citizenship, and Exclusion in Africa and Europe (U. Chicago Press) \$22.00
- Goodale, Mark (2009) Surrendering to Utopia: An Anthropology of Human Rights (Stanford UP) \$19.95.
- Haidar, Hamid (2008) Liberalism and Islam: Practical Reconciliation between the Liberal State and Shiite Muslims (Palgrave) \$80.00
- Hashemi, Nader (2009) Islam, Secularism, and Liberal Democracy: Toward a Democratic Theory for Muslim Societies (Oxford UP) \$65.00
- Henrard, Kristin and Robert Dunbar (eds) (2009) Synergies in Minority Protection: European and International Law Perspectives (Cambridge UP) \$108.00
- Holtug, Nils, Kasper Lippert-Rasmussen and Sune Laegaard (eds.) (2009) Nationalism and Multiculturalism in a World of Immigration (Palgrave) \$68.07.
- Hochschild, Jennifer and John Moellendorf (eds) (2009) Bringing Outsiders In: Transatlantic Perspectives on Immigrant Political Incorporation (Cornell UP) \$29.95.
- Hooker, Juliet (2009) Race and the Politics of Solidarity (Oxford UP) \$39.95
- Kartal, Filiz (2009) Changing Concepts and Practices of Citizenship: Experiences and Perceptions of Second-Generation Turkish-Germans (VDM Verlag) \$111.00
- Kastoryano, Riva (ed.) (2009) An Identity for Europe: The Relevance of Multiculturalism in EU Construction (Palgrave) \$71.97.
- Kaya, Ayhan (2009) Islam, Migration and Integration: The Age of Securitization (Palgrave) \$100.00
- Minority Rights Group (2009) State of the World's Minorities and Indigenous Peoples (Minority Rights Group).
- March, Andrew (2009) Islam and Liberal Citizenship: The Search for an Overlapping Consensus (Oxford UP) \$44.00
- Nachamani, Amikan (2009) Europe and its Muslim Minorities: Aspects of Conflict, Attempts at Accord (Sussex Academic Press) \$74.95
- Nedelsky, Nadya (2009) Defining the Sovereign Community: The Czech and Slovak Republics (U.Penn Press) \$65.00
- Pentassuglia, Gaetano (2009) Minority Groups and Judicial Discourse in International Law (Brill) \$141.00
- Phillipson, Robert (2009) Linguistic Imperialism Continued (Routledge) \$49.94.
- Prato, Guiliana (ed) (2009) Beyond Multiculturalism: Views from Anthropology (Ashgate) \$99.95
- Shachar, Ayelet (2009) The Birthright Lottery: Citizenship and Global Inequality (Harvard UP) \$39.95
- Skutnabb-Kangas, Tove (2009) Social Justice Through Multilingual Education (Multilingual Matters) \$44.77.
- Stilz, Anna (2009) Liberal Loyalty: Freedom, Obligation, and the State (Princeton UP) \$21.56.
- Taran, Patrick et al (2009) Economic migration, social cohesion and development: towards an integrated approach (Council of Europe) \$58.
- Thompson, Annis May (2009) First Nations, First Thoughts: The Impact of Indigenous Thoughts on Canada (UBC Press) \$85.
- Wachira, George Mukundi (ed) (2009) Ethnicity, Human Rights and Constitutionalism in Africa (International Commission of Jurists, and Konrad- Adenauer-Stiftung).
- Zapata-Barrero, Ricard (ed.) (2009) Immigration and Self-government of Minority Nations (Peter Lang) \$43.95.
- Zelizer, Craig and Robert Rubinstein (eds) (2009) Building Peace: Practical Reflections From the Field (Kumarian Press) \$29.95

##### Journal Special Issues

A recent issue of Educational Philosophy and Theory (Vol. 41/4, 2009) contains a symposium on "Patriotism and Citizenship Education, guest edited by Bruce Haynes. Authors include Yusef Waghid, Peter Roberts, Bruce Haynes and Muna Golmohamad.

A recent issue of Critique Internationale (#44, July 2009) focuses on "Religion et politique en democratie". Authors include Camille Foridevaux-Metterie, Cecile Laborde, Ariane Zambrias, Kathy Rousselet, and Denis Charbit.

A recent issue of Current Anthropology (Vol. 50/3, June 2009) contains a debate on "Indigeneity Global and Local", with a lead article by Francesca Merlan, and commentaries by Ravindra de Costa, Carol Greenhouse, Charles R. Hale, Will Kymlicka, Alcida Rita Ramos, Jeffrey Sissons, and Merlan's reply.

A recent issue of the Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies (Vol. 35/7, 2009) focuses on the role of the local context in immigrant and second-generation integration in the United States. Guest-edited by Mark Ellis and Gunnar Almgren, other contributors include Alejandro Portes, Patricia Fernandez-Kelly, Patricia, William Haller, Jamie Goodwin-White, Paul Jargowsky, Min Zhou, John Mollenkopf, Ana Champeny, John Logan, Sookhee Oh, Jennifer Darrah, and Peggy Levitt.

A recent issue of Turkish Studies Journal (Vol. 10/2, June 2009) focused on "Turkish Identity Formation and Political Mobilization in Western Europe and North America", guest-edited by Sebnem Koser Akcapar and Gokce Yurdakul, with articles by Ahmet Icduygu, Pontus Odmalm, Saime Ozcurumez, Ahmet Ykleyen, Esra ?yrek, Laure Michon; Floris Vermeulen, Jon Rogstad, Johnathan Lacey, and Thomas Faist.

#### 4\. Call for Papers

St Antonys International Review (STAIR) has issued a call for papers for a special issue on "Sovereignty and Secessionist Movements: Prospects and Challenges". Recent events in Kosova, South Ossetia, and Abkhazia have drawn the attention of the international community to secessionist movements, refocusing interest on cases such as Tibet and Somaliland. The increased activity of secessionist movements has revitalized intellectual debate over the changing meaning of sovereignty, self-determination, statebuilding, recognition, and security concerns. As the international political community strives to come to terms with these issues, the academic community is faced with the challenge of identifying the possible implications of these developments. STAIR invites academics, policymakers, and practitioners to engage in an inter-disciplinary discussion of this theme. We seek to publish empirical, theoretical, and policy-oriented articles, and case studies that cover a variety of issue areas including secession, self-determination, and recognition. Articles could consider, but are not limited to, the following questions: What criteria have been used to justify secession? How do secession movements challenge our understanding of state sovereignty and self-determination? What role does the international community play in recognizing secession entities? What are the legal and political implications of recognizing secessionist movements? Can the international community defuse secessionist claims by ensuring the fair treatment of minorities and by encouraging participation in transnational organizations? What is the economic feasibility of secessionist entities? Are there common patterns involving secessionist movements in different geopolitical areas? What does the future hold for secessionist movements? STAIR welcomes abstracts and idea proposals up to 500 words in length. Upon completion, main articles should not exceed 6000 words. In conjunction with this general call for papers, STAIR also seeks to publish book reviews of works that adhere to the advertised theme of the issue. Please submit proposals to <stairsecession@gmail.com>. Notes for contributors are available at <http://www.stair-journal.org>. Abstracts due September 1, 2009\. Papers due November 1, 2009.<http://www.stair-journal.org>

Current Issues in Language Planning has issued a call for papers for a forthcoming issue on "Language Planning and Migration". For further information please consult the journal website in PDF format: <http://www.tandf.co.uk/journals/cfp/rclpcfp_merged.pdf>

---

### Announcements

If you would like to announce a new research project, publication, call for papers, or upcoming conference in a future issue of this newsletter, please contact us at <cded@post.queensu.ca>, or you can write to the Forum for Philosophy and Public Policy, Department of Philosophy, Queen's University, Watson Hall 313, Kingston Ontario K7L 3N6, Canada. Fax: 613-533-6545.

Special thanks to Octavian Busuioc for research help, and to Lise Charlebois for help with the distribution of the newsletter.
