# Citizenship, Democracy and Ethnocultural Diversity Newsletter, No. 59, May 2011

## _Queen's Forum for Philosophy and Public Policy_

### Contents

- [1\. Introduction](#1-introduction)
- [2\. Upcoming Conferences](#2-upcoming-conferences)
- [3\. Recent Publications](#3-recent-publications)
  - [Books (prices in US\$)](#books-prices-in-us)
  - [Journal Special Issues](#journal-special-issues)
- [4\. Call for Papers and New Journals](#4-call-for-papers-and-new-journals)
- [5\. Fellowships and Courses](#5-fellowships-and-courses)
- [6\. Related Research Projects](#6-related-research-projects)
- [7\. Internet Resources](#7-internet-resources)

#### 1\. Introduction

The Forum for Philosophy and Public Policy at Queen's University is organizing a multi-year, research project on citizenship, democracy and minority rights in multiethnic states, under the direction of Prof. Will Kymlicka. As part of this project, the Forum distributes a quarterly newsletter updating recent developments in the field, of which this is the fifty-ninth issue. We hope that it will be of interest to anyone working in the field, whether in academia, public service, or non-governmental organizations.

If you would like to be added to the mailing list for this newsletter, please contact us at <cded@queensu.ca>. Back-issues of the newsletter are posted on the Web on Will Kymlicka's home-page: <http://www.queensu.ca/cded/news.html>

#### 2\. Upcoming Conferences

The Western Migration Conference Series is holding a conference entitled "Taking Stock of a Turbulent Decade and Looking Ahead: Immigration to North America 2000-2010", to be held in London Ontario at the University of Western Ontario on April 28-30, 2011\. This is an inter-disciplinary event with Canadian and American expert panelists, and two keynote addresses sponsored by the Harold Crabtree Foundation Award in Public Policy. The two keynote speakers will be Catrina Tapley, Citizenship and Immigration Canada; and Philip Martin, Comparative Immigration and Integration Program at the University of California, Davis. More information is available at <http://ir.lib.uwo.ca/wmc/>.

"Identity and Difference: Interdisciplinary Reflections" is a colloquium organized jointly by Bishop University and the Universite de Sherbrooke, within ACFAS 79th conference, to be held on May 11-12, 2011, in Sherbrooke, Quebec. This event aims at reflecting on notions of identity and difference as they are articulated in every society, particularly in an increasingly globalized world. For further details, visit website <http://www.h-net.org/announce/show.cgi?ID=181415>.

The 4th Symposium of the International Network of Migration and Development (INMD) will take place in Quito, Ecuador on May 18-20 of this year, on the theme "Global Crisis and Migratory Strategies: Rethinking Migration Policies". For more information see <http://www.flacsoandes.org/congreso/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=62&Itemid=55>

The Canadian Council for Refugees will be holding its Spring Consultation: "Honouring Refugee Rights: 60th anniversary of the Refugee Convention" from May 26-28 2011 in Hamilton, Canada. You do not have to be a member of the CCR to attend. Refugees are especially encouraged to attend. For further details, go to <http://ccrweb.ca/en/meetings>

The 4th Postgraduate Law and Philosophy Conference will take place on 28-29 May 2011 at the University of Stirling, Scotland on the theme of "Rights and Cultural Diversity", broadly construed. Keynote speakers are Andrew Simester and David Archard. For more information, visit the website at <http://www.philosophy.stir.ac.uk/research-events/index.php>.

A conference on "The Politics of Accommodation in Multinational Democracies" will be held at the European Studies Center at St. Antony's College, Oxford, on June 16-17, 2011\. The conference is organized by the Santander Visiting Fellowship at St. Antony's College. It aims to bridge comparative politics and comparative constitutional law through a genuinely interdisciplinary conversation and to unpack the notion of "accommodation." We will have both constitutional lawyers and political scientists in a genuine interdisciplinary dialogue. Among the conference participants are: Stephen Tierney, Montserrat Guibernau, Brendan O'Leary, Xavier Arbós, Francois Rocher, Benoît Pelletier, Enric Martínez Herrera, José María Sauca, and André Fazi. For more information, please contact the Santander Fellow at St. Antony's College, Oxford, Dr. Jaime Lluch, at <jaime.lluch@gmail.com>

The 13th International Conference on Minority Languages will be held in Flensburg, Germany on 22-25 June, 2011, on the theme of the institutional bases of minority languages. What kind of institutions have minorities developed in order to protect and promote their languages? What are the roles of such arrangements for language-based minority identities? The conference is a joint venture between three institutions of the region : The European Centre for Minority Issues, the University of Southern Denmark, Department of Border Region Studies and the Institute for Danish Language and Literature, University of Flensburg. For more information, visit the conference website: [www.icml13.org](http://www.icml13.org/)

The International Centre for Education for Democratic Citizenship at the University of London is holding its 5th annual conference on the theme "Citizenship, Society and Social Justice: new agendas?", on 1 July 2011\. This international conference will explore the many possible relationships between citizenship and education, including formal citizenship education. Education for citizenship recognises and engages with the tensions and conflicts inherent in political activity in the UK and across the world. Keynote speakers include Engin Isin, Shakuntala Banaji and Jesse Norman. Abtracts of no more than 300 words including name and contact details, should be sent, no later than May 3 2011 to: Dr Hugh Starkey <h.starkey@ioe.ac.uk>. Full details of the conference, including how to submit an abstract are available at: <http://www.ioe.ac.uk/research/4581.html>

The European Centre for Minority Issues (Flensburg, Germany) and Vytautas Magnus Universtity (Kaunas, Lithuania) are co-organizing a conference on "Adjusting to Europe: Institutional Legacies of Communism and Ethnocultural Diversity" on August 29-30, 2011 in Kaunas, Lithuania. This conference asks how the institutional and ideological legacies of the communist era continue to affect minority politics in the region, and how they impact on the EU's approach to minority protection. Issues to be addressed include ¬ but are not limited to - interpretations of social equality, ethnocultural development, ethnic representation and autonomy. The organizers are explicitly interested in contributions assessing the convergence and/or conflict between communist ethnic policies and minority protection standards in contemporary Europe. For more information, e-mail Timofey Agarin at <t.agarin@ecmi.de> The preliminary program is available at: <http://www.ecmi.de/fileadmin/bilder/Projects/PrelimProgramme_Apr25.pdf>.

A conference on "Diaspora Strategies: Encouragement, Evolution, and Engagement" will be held on 9-10 September 2011 at the Clinton Institute of American Studies, University College Dublin, Ireland. Plenary speakers include Prof. Gabriel Sheffer (Hebrew University of Jerusalem), Kingsley Aikins (Networking Matters), and Tim Finch (Institute for Public Policy Research). This conference will engage with one of the most pertinent political discourses emerging in recent decades, diaspora strategies. The conference aims to examine the definitional, theoretical and practical frameworks of diaspora strategies. It will examine historical connotations of the subject matter as well as more contemporary policy implications. It will examine the role diaspora strategies play in both the domestic and foreign policy of Ireland. Furthermore, it will locate such discourses within the broader international community, drawing out comparative analysis on questions of nationalism, identity and representation. We invite single paper and panel proposals for this conference. For more information, send an email to <diasporastrategies@gmail.com>, or visit the conference website: <http://diasporastrategies.wordpress.com/>

The London School of Economics is hosting a one-day conference on "Animal Citizens", organized by Alasdair Cochrane, on October 7, 2011\. Animal ethics has provided us with various theories which claim that animals are the subjects of 'moral status'. However, an increasing number of scholars have begun to ask what we owe to animals as subjects of political status – as members of and participants in our political communities. Can we, as some have suggested, regard certain non-human animals as 'citizens'? And what might animal citizenship imply for our obligations towards them? What are the costs and benefits of taking this political approach to the animal question? This one-day symposium brings together academic experts writing in this field to discuss these, and related, questions. Speakers include Will Kymlicka, Siobhan O'Sullivan, Robert Garner and Steve Cooke. For more information, contact the organizer at: <A.D.Cochrane@lse.ac.uk>

The University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee is hosting a conference on "Critical Refugee Studies" on November 3-4, 2011 in Milwaukee. Displacement of populations affects the uprooted as well as communities that receive them. The category of refugee has a history as long as the incidence of warfare and other crises that result in displacement. This conference uses the 20th century invention of the category of refugee as a means to compare the experiences of displaced persons across time and space. Abstracts by May 15, 2011 to: <criticalrefugee-studies@uwm.edu>. For more information, visit: <http://www4.uwm.edu/letsci/ethnic/pdf/conference2011_call.pdf>.

The VIII International ASAEC Congress is on the theme "Indigenous peoples, conflicts and power in Education and Culture", to be held on November 9-11 2011, in Córdoba, Argentina. The Association for Canadian Studies in Argentina (ASAEC), in the context of the Bicentennial of the American people, is proposing to create a space for the recuperation and exchange of experiences and reflections with and among indigenous peoples from all over the continent. For more information, send an email to <asaec@fibertel.com.ar>

There will be a conference on "Empathy: Self, Society, Culture" at the Poynter Center for the Study of Ethics and American Institutions at Indiana University, Bloomington on Nov. 11-12, 2011\. Growing out of a two-year grant-supported project on "Virtuous Empathy: Scientific and Humanistic Investigations," this symposium aims to explore theories and practices of empathy. We invite papers to explore both virtuous and vicious forms of empathy, and to do so from a variety of perspectives. Proposals for papers are invited in three broad categories: Empathy and Psychology; Empathy and Ethics; and Empathy in Culture, History, and Society. The symposium has three keynote speakers: Carolyn Dean (Brown University), Nancy Eisenberg (Arizona State University), Nancy Sherman (Georgetown University). All proposals are due by May 9, 2011\. Send proposals to: Empathy Symposium, c/o Richard B. Miller (<miller3@indiana.edu>). For more information, visit: <http://poynter.indiana.edu/empathy.shtml>.

#### 3\. Recent Publications

##### Books (prices in US\$)

- Adelman, Howard and Pierre Anctil (eds.) (2011) Religion, Culture, and the State: Reflections on the Bouchard-Taylor Report (University of Toronto Press), \$21.95
- Ahmed, T (2011)The Impact of EU Law on Minority Rights (Hart Publishing), \$82.14
- Allen, Stephen and Alexandra Xanthaki (eds.) (2011) Reflections in the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples (Hart Publishing), \$67.51
- Allon, Gal, Athena Leoussi and Anthony Smith (eds.) (2010) The Call of the Homeland: Diaspora Nationalism Past and Present (Brill), \$199.00
- Arthur, Paige (ed.) (2011) Identities in Transition: Challenges for Transitional Justice in Divided Societies (Cambridge UP), \$81.59
- Bajpai, Rochana (2011) Debating Difference: Group Rights and Liberal Democracy in India (Oxford University Press), \$68.50
- Calder, Gideon and Emanuela Ceva (eds.) (2011) Diversity in Europe: Dilemmas of differential treatment in theory and practice (Routledge) \$109.27
- Chung, Erin (2010) Immigration and Citizenship in Japan (Cambridge UP), \$69.56
- Corntassel, Jeff, R. C. Witmer, and L. G. Robertson (2011) Forced Federalism: Contemporary Challenges to Indigenous Nationhood (University of Oklahoma Press), \$19.95
- Council of Europe (2011) Migrants and their descendants - Guide to policies for the well-being of all in pluralist societies, \$106.00
- Danisch, Robert (ed.) (2011) Citizens of the World: Pluralism, Migration and Practices of Citizenship (Rodopi), \$62.00
- Evans L. E. (2011) Power from Powerlessness. Tribal Governments, Institutional Niches, and American Federalism (Oxford University Press), \$55.00
- Gagnon, Alain, Andre Lecours and Genevieve Nootens (eds.) (2011) Contemporary Majority Nationalism (McGill-Queen's UP), \$29.95
- Giuliano, E. (2011) Constructing Grievance: Ethnic Nationalism in Russia's Republics (Cornell University Press), \$45.00
- Gover, Kirsty (2011) Tribal Constitutionalism: States, Tribes, and the Governance of Membership (Oxford UP), \$85.68
- Guelke, Adrian (ed.) (2010) The Challenge of Ethnonationalism: Case Studies in Identity Politics (Palgrave), \$85.00
- Giugni, Marco and Laura Morales (eds.) (2011) Social Capital, Political Participation and Migration in Europe. Making Multicultural Democracy Work? (Palgrave Macmillan). \$85.00
- Harper, Marjory (2011) Migration and Empire (Oxford UP), \$55.96
- Heller, Monica (2010) Paths to Post-Nationalism (Oxford UP), \$39.95
- Hodgson D. L. (2011) Being Maasai, Becoming Indigenous: Postcolonial Politics in a Neoliberal World (Indiana University Press), \$24.95
- Howe, Paul (2011) Citizens Adrift: The Democratic Disengagement of Young Canadians (UBC Press), \$105.00
- Ivinson, Duncan (ed.) (2010) The Ashgate Research Companion to Multiculturalism (Ashgate), \$144.95
- Jamal, A. (2011) Arab Minority Nationalism in Israel: The Politics of Indigeneity (Routledge), \$130
- Kjær, Anne Lise and Silvia Adamo (eds.) (2011) Linguistic Diversity and European Democracy (Ashgate), \$124.95
- Klopotek B. (2011) Recognition Odysseys: Indigeneity, Race, and Federal Tribal Recognition Policy in Three Louisiana Indian Communities (Duke UP), \$17.96
- Lacasse, Nicole and Jacques Palard (2011) Immigration et intégration au Québec et en France (Presses de l'Université Laval), \$49.94
- Lee, Jennifer and Frank Bean (2010) The Diversity Paradox: Immigration and the Color Line in 21st Century America (Russell Sage), \$24.75
- Lemee, Isabelle Vera Regan, and Maeve Conrick (2010) Multiculturalism and Integration: Canadian and Irish Experiences, (University of Ottawa Press), \$26.56
- Markus, Andrew and Moshe Semyonov (eds.) (2011) Immigration and Nation Building: Australia and Israel compared (Edward Elgar Publishing). \$110.00
- Massey, Douglas and Sanchez Magaly (2010) Brokered Boundaries: Creating Immigrant Identity in Anti-Immigrant Times (Russell Sage), \$26.37
- Modood, Tariq and John Salt (eds) (2011) Global Migration, Ethnicity and Britishness (Palgrave) \$85.00
- Ndahinda, Felix Mukwiza (2011) Indigeousness in Africa: A Contested Legal Framework for Empowerment of "Marginalized" Communities (Asser Press), \$139.00
- OECD (2011) Naturalisation: A Passport for the Better Integration of Immigrants? (OECD Publishing).
- Phillips, Anne (2010) Gender and Culture (Polity), \$46.45
- Sayyid, S. and AbdoolKarim Vaki (eds.) (2011) Thinking Through Islamophobia: Global Perspectives (Columbia UP).
- Sheppard, Colleen (2011) Inclusive Equality: The Relational Dimensions of Systemic Discrimination in Canada (McGill-Queen's UP), \$24.28
- Silj, Alessandro (ed) (2010) European Multiculturalism Revisited (Zed Books) \$35.95
- Smith, Rogers (ed) (2011) Citizenship, Borders, and Human Needs (U. Penn Press), \$65.00
- Westin, Charles (ed.) Identity Processes and Dynamics in Multi-Ethnic Europe (Amsterdam UP), \$69.95

##### Journal Special Issues

The Journal of Intercultural Studies (Vol. 32/2, 2011) has a special issue on "Diversity and the Complexities of Ethnic Integration in the UK". It is guest-edited by Gemma Catney, Nissa Finney and Liz Twigg, and includes papers by Sarah-Anne Muñoz, Jamie Kesten, Allan Cochrane, Giles Mohan, Sarah Neal, Lavinia Mitton, Antonia Simon, Martina Boese and Melissa Phillips.

A recent issue of Ethnicities (Vol. 10/4, 2010) is devoted to "Immigration, Diversity and Social Cohesion", guest-edited by Nils Hortung and Andrew Mason, with articles by Holtung, Mason, Eric Uslaner, Yngve Lithman, Nils Kærgaard, Ellie Vasta, and Sune Lægaard.

The most recent issue of Diversities (Vol. 13, No. 1, 2011) is a special issue on "Female Migration Outcomes: Human Rights Perspectives". The issue is guest edited by Nicola Piper and Amber French, and includes articles by Claudia Mora and Nicola Piper, Tanja Bastia and Erika Busse, Georgia Barbara Jettinger, Amie Gaye and Shreyasi Jha, and Bridget Wooding.

Ethnic and Racial Studies has recently published a special issue (Vol 34/5, 2011) on "Ethnic and Racial Minorities in Asia: Inclusion or Exclusion?", guest edited by Michelle Miller, with articles by Damien Kingsbury, Stefan Ehrentraut, Michelle Ann Miller, Gabriele Marranci, Duncan McCargo, and Jacques Bertrand.

#### 4\. Call for Papers and New Journals

In collaboration with the Centro de Estudios y Documentación Internacionales de Barcelona (CIDOB, [www.cidob.org](http://www.cidob.org/)), the Interdisciplinary Research Group on Immigration (GRITIM, [www.upf.edu/gritim](http://www.upf.edu/gritim)) is seeking chapters for "Spheres of Diversity", a book that focuses on the theme of diversity both as a concept and as a policy regarding private and public institutions in Europe. The book will be edited by Ricard Zapata-Barrero and Anne R. van Ewijk. Ihe book strives to enhance conceptual thinking on diversity, but also to facilitate policy thinking on the concept involved in novel policy orientations towards diversity. All those interested in collaborating in this book project are invited to submit a proposal (including a short motivation, a paper summary of max. 200 words, and your contact data). Selected chapters, that also pass the external review process, will be published in on-line book in the Autumn of 2011\. You can email your proposal to Anne van Ewijk: <annevanewijk@gmail.com>.

Dr Anton Shekhovtsov will guest edit a special double issue of the journal Patterns of Prejudice on the role of music in the demonization of the Other, to be published at the beginning of 2013\. Since the end of the nineteenthth century, music has played an increasingly prominent role in constructing national identities and promoting various types of nationalist projects. This special issue will feature original research articles focusing on historical and contemporary instances of intersection of music and nationalism. We are particularly interested in contributions that address the following issues: musical works as lieux de memoire; appropriation of folk music in nationalist narratives; music and racial or ethnic conflict; the role of music in the demonization or stigmatization or ethnic, racial or national communities; xenophobic tendencies in contemporary musical genres such as Punk, Industrial, Hip-Hop, Neo-Folk, Dark Ambient, Black Metal and others; the use of music by historical and contemporary far right movements, organizations and parties. Proposals for articles (500 words) addressing these and related issues should be submitted by e-mail before 15 June 2011\. All final contributions must be the original work of the author/s; they will be subject to peer review and the editors' decisions will be final. Please send proposals to Anton Shekhovtsov (<anton.shekhovtsov@gmail.com>) and/or Barbara Rosenbaum (<b.rosenbaum@dsl.pipex.com>).

#### 5\. Fellowships and Courses

"Rethinking International Migration" is a 2011 National Endowment for the Humanities Summer Seminar for College and University Teachers. The seminar will be directed by Roger Waldinger, Distinguished Professor of Sociology, University of California, Los Angeles. This five week summer seminar will be held at the UCLA campus from June 13 through July 15, 2011\. The seminar is open to 16 NEH summer scholars, from a broad range of disciplinary backgrounds. Principally oriented to teachers of American undergraduate students, the seminar is open to qualified independent scholars and will include two full-time graduate students. More information can be found at: <http://apply.international.ucla.edu/migration/>.

The Institute for Minority Rights at EURAC is holding its annual Summer School on Human Rights, Minorities and Diversity Management will take place from June 20 to July 7 2011 in Bolzano, Italy. This year's Summer School focuses especially on the topic of linguistic diversity and language rights from a multi-disciplinary perspective. The Summer School is designed to benefit members of linguistic minorities and civil servants from local, regional or national administrations who deal with minority related issues and therefore require both theoretical and practical training in diversity management; lawyers, economists, social scientists and others in the employment of non-governmental organizations wishing to enhance inter-disciplinary skills and to specialize in different aspects of minority rights; journalists and teachers interested in the recent developments and advanced training in the related fields; Master and PhD students wishing to acquire greater competitive personal competence beneficial for a future career in the academia or practice-orientated professions. Further details on the 2011 Summer School can be found at [www.eurac.edu/summerschool](http://www.eurac.edu/summerschool).

The Centre for Citizenship, Civil Society and Rule of Law (CISRUL) at the University of Aberdeen is hosting a workshop and PhD summer school on the theme "What Equality?". The workshop will take place on 28-29 June 2011, and the PhD summer school will take place on June 30-July 1\. The academic coordinator is Trevor Stack (<t.stack@abdn.ac.uk>). Equality, slogan of choice in heady moments such as the 1790s and the 1960s, recedes into the background at other times like our present. All the more reason to ask, now, what ideas of equality there are, and whether there are equalities in practice. The workshop will focus on the ideas of equality associated with citizenship, with civil society and with rule of law. We will discuss, among other things, how the equality of citizens and equality before the law relate to each other, and how they stand in relation to other kinds of equality and inequality, such as the substantive distribution of rights, the socioeconomic disparities that concerned T.H. Marshall, access to the justice system, and cultural recognition. We will also ask how equality plays out in civil society, which has been accused of being unrepresentative and elitist yet often invokes some kind of equality as its objective. The detailed CfP for the workshop and PhD summer school can be downloaded from the Centre for Citizenship, Civil Society and Rule of Law website at [www.abdn.ac.uk/cisrul](http://www.abdn.ac.uk/cisrul).

The Third Annual Summer Institute of Civic Studies at Tisch College, Tufts University, will take place between July 11-23, 2011 in Medford, Massachusetts. The Summer Institute is an intensive, two-week interdisciplinary seminar intended primarily for advanced graduate students and also open to faculty and reflective practitioners. Its main questions are: What kinds of citizens (if any) do good communities need? How and when can citizens improve communities and institutions? What should citizens know, believe, and do? What institutional structures promote the right kinds of citizenship? How do individuals learn civic skills, habits, values, dispositions, and knowledge? The Institute consists of three seminars each day for nine days, followed by a public conference on July 22-23\. The Institute is led by Peter Levine (Tisch College) and Karol Soltan (University of Maryland). There are demanding readings for every session but no writing assignments. Tuition is free. Details about the 2011 Institute, application instructions, and background information can be found at <http://activecitizen.tufts.edu/?pid=1096>.

The Centre for Citizenship, Civil Society and Rule of Law (CISRUL) at the University of Aberdeen will offer a number of inter-disciplinary 3-year PhD studentships starting 2011-12\. We welcome applicants from anthropology, cultural and literary studies, history, legal theory and socio-legal studies, philosophy, politics, religious studies, sociology and theology. The Centre for Citizenship, Civil Society and Rule of Law aims to produce conversation across the social sciences and humanities on key concepts of the modern polity. Citizenship, civil society and rule of law are three such key concepts, all three of some pedigree but enjoying a new lease of life, prescribed by bodies such as IMF and United Nations, championed by social movements, and debated in the media and in academic research. We are also interested in related concepts such as democracy, human rights, multiculturalism and pluralism, as well as in the question of religion including how religious is distinguished from secular. Please visit [www.abdn.ac.uk/cisrul](http://www.abdn.ac.uk/cisrul) for a description of the Centre's mission, staff and activities. Please apply at <http://www.abdn.ac.uk/prospectus/pgrad/>

The ECPR Standing Group on Federalism and Regionalism is organizing a summer school for PhD students on "Federalism, Regionalism and the Governance of Diversity in Europe and Beyond" on September 2 - 10, 2011 hosted by the the Centre for Federal Studies, University of Kent. For more information see: <http://www.ecprnet.eu/summerschools/documents/SSFR_Programme_2011.pdf>

#### 6\. Related Research Projects

'Responding to Complex Diversity in Europe and Canada' (RECODE) consists of a series of thematic workshops over the coming years. RECODE is an interdisciplinary Research Networking Programme sponsored by the European Science Foundation. It involves 13 European countries and Canada. The Programme, which will run through 2014, primarily consists of a series of thematic workshops over the coming years.The first workshop of the programme will examine 'Linguistic diversity and political integration' on May 6th and 7th. For more information see <http://www.recode.fi/>

The project "US and EU Immigration Systems" will focus on eight areas -- employment, economic growth, human rights, security, immigrant integration, demographics, development, and cooperation with immigrant-sending countries. A series of US and European papers will examine how policymakers on both sides of the Atlantic can respond to global immigration trends and challenges in times of current economic hardship and beyond, and will assess the potential for transatlantic cooperation on migration issues. The research is funded by the European Commission DG Relex as part of its series of Pilot Projects on "Transatlantic Methods for Handling Global Challenges." The project is being carried out by the Migration Policy Institute and the European University Institute's Shuman Center for Advanced Studies. Research from the project will be available at: [www.migrationpolicy.org/immigrationsystems/](http://www.migrationpolicy.org/immigrationsystems/).

#### 7\. Internet Resources

The United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) in February 2011 released the report "Minority Rights: International Standards and Guidance for Implementation". The report highlights that the rights of minorities, although defined in international human rights law, are far from being realized, particularly the rights of minorities that are victims of armed conflict or internal strife. In general, minorities, whether ethnic, religious or linguistic, continue to experience discrimination and may lack access to services, land and property, or even nationality, the report notes. The report is aimed to raise additional awareness among staff of UN organizations and specialized agencies of minority rights and the impediments minorities face in the enjoyment of these rights. It looks at minority rights protection in relation to international human rights law and mechanisms, examines how to improve the situation of the world's minorities, and explores activities the United Nations is currently undertaking to provide human rights capacity-building to representatives of minorities and minority communities. To download the full report, go to <http://www.ohchr.org/Documents/Publications/MinorityRights_en.pdf>.

The Council of Europe's "Intercultural Cities Index" is now on-line. The Intercultural Cities Index illustrates visually the level of achievement of each city in relation to the 10 key elements of the intercultural integration model, how they progress over time, and how they compare with other cities. The INDEX is based on 66 questions grouped in 14 indicators with three distinct types of data. The INDEX makes it easier to identify and communicate where a city stands in relation to intercultural integration, where effort should be focused in the future and which other cities could be a source of good practice in these particular areas. A report will be prepared for each city entering the INDEX and the results will be included in the interactive graphs. The INDEX will also serve as a tool for research on the impact of the intercultural approach on the development and well-being of cities. Visit: <http://www.coe.int/t/dg4/cultureheritage/culture/Cities/Index/default_en.asp>

The new Media Library of the French-American Foundation's Equality of Opportunity Program is now accessible on line, thanks to the support of the Ford Foundation. This bilingual, English-French, website is located at <http://equality.frenchamerican.org/>. It features a variety of resources that explore French and US antidiscrimination strategies as well as other diversity-related issues. This multimedia library includes reports by Linda Hamilton Krieger (UC-Berkeley), Claire Adida (Stanford), David Laitin (Stanford), Marie-Anne Valfort (Université Paris 1), and Gary Orfield (UCLA) and Patricia Gandara (UCLA). It also includes ten video interviews (along with the corresponding transcripts, in English and in French) with various scholars and officials.

---

### Announcements

If you would like to announce a new research project, publication, call for papers, or upcoming conference in a future issue of this newsletter, please contact us at <cded@post.queensu.ca>, or you can write to the Forum for Philosophy and Public Policy, Department of Philosophy, Queen's University, Watson Hall 313, Kingston Ontario K7L 3N6, Canada. Fax: 613-533-6545.

Special thanks to Octavian Busuioc for research help, and to Lise Charlebois for help with the distribution of the newsletter.
