# Citizenship, Democracy and Ethnocultural Diversity Newsletter No. 55, January 2010

## _Queen's Forum for Philosophy and Public Policy_

### Contents

- [1\. Introduction](#1-introduction)
- [2\. Postdoctoral Fellowship in Democracy and Diversity](#2-postdoctoral-fellowship-in-democracy-and-diversity)
- [3\. Upcoming Conferences](#3-upcoming-conferences)
- [4\. Recent Publications](#4-recent-publications)
  - [Books (prices in US\$)](#books-prices-in-us)
  - [Journal Special Issues](#journal-special-issues)
- [5\. Call for Papers](#5-call-for-papers)
- [6\. Fellowships and Courses](#6-fellowships-and-courses)
- [7\. Related Research Projects](#7-related-research-projects)

#### 1\. Introduction

The Forum for Philosophy and Public Policy at Queen's University is organizing a multi-year, research project on citizenship, democracy and minority rights in multiethnic states, under the direction of Prof. Will Kymlicka. As part of this project, the Forum distributes a quarterly newsletter updating recent developments in the field, of which this is the fifty-fifth issue. We hope that it will be of interest to anyone working in the field, whether in academia, public service, or non-governmental organizations.

If you would like to be added to the mailing list for this newsletter, please contact us at <cded@queensu.ca>. Back-issues of the newsletter are posted on the Web on Will Kymlicka's home-page: <http://www.queensu.ca/cded/news.html>

#### 2\. Postdoctoral Fellowship in Democracy and Diversity

We are now inviting applications for the sixth year of the postdoctoral fellowship program in "Democracy and Diversity" at Queen's University, funded in part by the Canadian Institute for Advanced Research. Each year, one non-renewable 12-month fellowship will be awarded. The fellow will work under the supervision of Prof. Will Kymlicka. The 2010-11 fellowship will start on July 1, 2010\. Applicants must have submitted their doctoral dissertation by that date, and must be within five years of having received their doctorate. The salary for the postdoctoral fellowship will be \$34,000 (Canadian), which includes remuneration for teaching a half-course in political philosophy or a cognate subject. The fellowship is part of a larger nexus of activities at Queen's relating to the normative and empirical study of democracy and diversity, including the Forum for Philosophy and Public Policy; the Ethnicity and Democratic Governance project ( www.queensu.ca/edg/) the Fulbright Visiting Professorship in Nationalism, Ethnicity and Multicultural Citizenship; the Centre for the Study of Democracy; and the Institute of Intergovernmental Relations - all of which have active programs of workshops, conferences and visiting scholars and speakers. The Fellow would be expected to participate in these various activities as appropriate, including presentation of his or her research findings, and to assist Prof. Kymlicka in the Forum's activities. While "Democracy and Diversity" is to be understood expansively, and there are no pre-determined limits on the topics it may cover, Queen's has a special expertise in issues of ethnocultural diversity. Recent and ongoing activities have covered such topics as immigration and citizenship, multiculturalism and multicultural education, indigenous rights, affirmative action, historic injustice, nationalism and secession, language rights, and transnational democracy. Applicants who combine normative analysis with empirical case studies are particularly welcome. Applications should include a curriculum vitae, together with a statement of research interests, a teaching dossier, and a writing sample. Applications should be sent to the Department of Philosophy, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada, K7L 3N6, to arrive by February 1, 2010\. It is the responsibility of the applicants to have three letters of reference sent directly by their referees. References may be mailed to the postal address above, or sent by email to:<kymlicka@queensu.ca>. Further information is available on the Department's website: <http://www.queensu.ca/philosophy/jobs.html>.

#### 3\. Upcoming Conferences

A conference on "Biomapping or Biocolonizing? Indigenous Identities and Scientific Research in the 21st Century" will be held at the Universite de Savoie, Chambery, France, from January 28-30, 2010\. It seeks to explore the reaction of indigenous peoples to recent scientific research such as the Human Genome Diversity Project or more specific studies on indigenous populations. For more information, contact Susanne Berthier at <susanne.berthier@univ-savoie.fr>, or Sandrine Tolazzi at <sandrine.tolazzi@u-grenoble3.fr>, or visit the conference website <http://www.h-net.org/announce/show.cgi?ID=169492>.

"Land of Promise: Stories of the Immigrant in Multicultural Canada" is a conference organized by the Centre for Canadian Studies of Jadavpur University, India, from February 3rd to 5th, 2010\. The conference will involve a dialogue between the local and the global and highlight the concerns within the concept of Multiculturalism in Canada. All proposals must be sent by email, to <canadacentreju@gmail.com>. For more information, visit the website <http://www.h-net.org/announce/show.cgi?ID=171594>.

"Autonomy: Imagining Democratic Alternatives in Complex Settings" is a workshop co-organized by the Ethnicity and Democratic Governance (EDG) project, to be held on April 13-17, 2010 at the Universidad Carlos III in Madrid. The workshop convenors are Alain Gagnon (Université du Québec à Montréal) and Michael Keating (European University Institute). It will explore autonomy as a potential means of managing diversity in highly differentiated societies. The concept of autonomy has entered into political debate, for example, in the platform of the Action Démocratique du Québec and in discussions about territorial devolution in Europe, as a category distinct from federalism and from decentralization in a unitary state. Yet the concept is not well defined or theorised as a distinct form of political order. The workshop will consider the political economy of autonomy, exploring how autonomous territorial developments can be constructed, rather than limiting discussions solely to constitutional matters. For more information, visit: <http://www.queensu.ca/edg/CFP_autonomy.pdf>.

"Digital Diasporas: Distances, Cultures, Languages" is a seminar to be held at the annual meeting of the American Comparative Literature Association (ACLA) on April 1-4, 2010 in New Orleans. This seminar will address aspects of internet culture that cross, crush, redefine, and/or reinforce borders; that eradicate and/or extend notions of distance; that legitimate, destabilize, and/or invent linguistic practices. Potential topics include (but are certainly not limited to) blogs, Twitter feeds, YouTube, Facebook, SMS and mobile telephony, listservs, MMORPGs, lurkers, activists, hacking, art, affinity groups, citizenship, affect, nationality, gender, race, class, geographies, histories, literacies. Work representing all theoretical inclinations is welcome. Please contact Scott Kushner (<scott.kushner@gmail.com>) with questions, or visit the ACLA conference website at[http://acla.org/acla2010/](http://acla.org/acla2010).

The Student Caucus at CERIS - the Ontario Metropolis Centre is hosting the Annual Graduate Student Conference on Friday April 23rd, 2010 at York University, Toronto, on the theme "(Re)Imagining Canada: Migration, Transnationalism, and Diaspora". This event offers graduate students interested in migration studies the opportunity to present and discuss their research with fellow students in an intellectually vibrant, supportive, and multidisciplinary forum. The theme of (Re)Imagining Canada: Migration, Transnationalism, and Diaspora embraces a comprehensive and interdisciplinary discussion of contemporary international migration around such issues as: Safety and Health Issues for Newcomers; Migration and Settlement Experiences of Youth; Heightened Security and Citizenship Policies and Programs; Images and Representations of Migrants and Migration; Precarious Status and Employment; Everyday Lives and Identities in Diasporas and Transnational Communities; Civic, Economic and Social Inclusion; The Homes and Housing of Newcomers; Ethnoscapes and Identities; Gender and Sexuality in Migrants Lives' Politics and Policies of Migration. Presenters should be current graduate students or students who have completed graduate studies within the past two years. Abstracts should be submitted electronically to <ceris@yorku.ca>no later than March 1, 2010\. For information see the CERIS website, <http://ceris.metropolis.net>, or contact the organising committee at <ceris@yorku.ca>.

"Forced Migration: Challenges and Change" is the theme of the annual conference of the Canadian Association for Refugee and Forced Migration Studies (CARFMS), which will be held from May 6-8, 2010, at Mc Master University, Hamilton, Ontario. It will bring together researchers, policymakers, displaced persons and advocates from diverse disciplinary and regional backgrounds to discuss the changes and challenges faced in the field of forced migration. We invite participants from a wide range of perspectives to explore the practical, experiential, policy-oriented, legal and theoretical questions raised by different processes of change affecting forced migrants at the local, national, regional and international levels. All proposals for communications must be submitted by February 25th, 2010 via the conference website at <http://carfmsconference.yorku.ca/>. For more information, please contact Ms Heather Johnson at <johnsohl@mcmaster.ca>.

The Graduate Law Students' Association (GLSA) of Osgoode Hall Law School is pleased to invite graduate students and junior faculty to submit abstracts to its annual academic conference. Hosted in Toronto, Canada from May 21-22, 2010, this year's theme - Beyond Law - welcomes applications from a variety of perspectives and disciplines. 'Beyond Law' aims to consider law from multiple viewpoints, foregrounding the importance of legal pluralism as well as interdisciplinary work. We invite scholars to move beyond the courtroom, the legislature and the law office to discuss the relevance of law in society. Intersections such as law & geography; law & literature; law & philosophy; law & religion; and law & history are now familiar means of bringing legal theory into discussion with other fields. For more information, see <http://www.osgoode.yorku.ca/glsa/2010conference/2010_papers.html>.

The Ethnicity and Democratic Governance Project will be hosting a workshop on "Territory, Diversity and Citizenship" on June 4 - 5, 2010 at Queen's University in Kingston, Canada. This workshop aims to bring normative theorists and empirical social scientists together to address some of the central normative and practical dimensions of conflict that involve disputes about territory. Practically, the workshop is interested in issues of corrective justice in cases where people settle on land previously held by another group (e.g. in Israel-Palestine, Cyprus, South Africa, India), cases of secession, boundary disputes, demands for autonomy, assertion of exclusive citizenship rights for autochthons (sons of the soil), and aboriginal land claims in former colonies of settlement, as well as to changing forms of land tenure and property rights both rural and urban. We are interested in papers that focus on how the politics of ethnic/cultural/religious identities play a role in many of the claims made for land. We are also interested in examining the kinds of moral claims that communities involved in such disputes can make for entitlement to land and the justifiability of these claims. For more information, contact the organizers Margaret Moore (<Margaret.moore@queensu.ca>) or Avigail Eisenberg (<avigaile@uvic.ca>), or check the call for papers: [www.queensu.ca/edg/CFP_territory.pdf](http://www.queensu.ca/edg/CFP_territory.pdf).

A conference on "Citizenship in a Globalized World: Perspectives from the Immigrant Democracies", will be held at the University of New South Wales in Sydney on 14-15 July 2010, sponsored by the Harvard University Committee on Australian Studies, the Australian Government Department of Immigration and Citizenship, and UNSW, and organized by Geoffrey Brahm Levey and Ayelet Shachar. In many ways, re-emerging and conflicting dynamics of globalization and protectionism are sharpening a tension at the very core of liberal democracies, namely, between the commitment to universal liberal and democratic values, on the one hand, and the commitment to a particular national culture and political community, on the other. These complex developments raise a number of pressing questions, which may be grouped into three clusters: 1) Citizenship and Justice across Borders; (2) Rethinking the Relationships between Sending and Receiving Countries; and (3) The Politics of Immigration, the latter treating how democratic governments and political parties should respond to public controversy over immigration. For more information, contact Geoffrey Brahm Levey at <g.levey@unsw.edu.au>

Laurentian University is hosting a conference on "Language and Territory" at its campus in Sudbury (Ontario, Canada) from August 29¬September 3, 2010\. Languages, as vehicles of history and culture, evolve differently on diverse territories. As such, the significance of a given language varies from one territory to another. The concept of territory, understood in a broad sense, is often used to circumscribe the activity of a language, by imposing either geopolitical and judicial frontiers or social parameters. The borders drawn between languages and territories are, however, not impervious. In fact, these borders change through time and space; they are subject to prevailing factors such as the migration of populations, linguistic policies, linguistic and social representations, education, mass media and socio-cultural values. The conference proposes to address, in a systematic and analytical fashion, the often tenuous and porous categories of language and territory. For more information, as well as the call for papers, please visit: <http://www.languageandterritory.laurentian.ca>.

The Ethnicity and Democratic Governance Project is organizing a workshop on "International Approaches to Governing Ethnic Diversity: Security, Democracy and Minority Rights", to be held at Queen's University on September 24 - 25, 2010 in Kingston, Canada, co-organized by Will Kymlicka (Queen's University) and Jane Boulden (Royal Military College). While decisions about the governance of ethnic diversity remain primarily in the hands of national governments, a wide range of international actors often seek to influence those decisions, or to shape their implementation. This workshop will explore the role of international actors in a variety of settings, in order to better understand their motivations, capacities, strategies, and effects. By "international actors" we mean not only traditional intergovernmental organizations like the United Nations, but also international advocacy groups (such as Human Rights Watch), international corporations, as well as a range of third-party actors, such as the foreign aid programs of Western states. For more information, please contact the conference organizers (<kymlicka@queensu.ca>; <jane.boulden@rmc.ca>) or check the call for papers: <http://www.queensu.ca/edg/CFP_Sep_2010.pdf>.

"Justice and Migration: Paradoxes of Belonging" is the theme of the 15th annual International Metropolis Conference, which will take place in The Hague from October 4-8, 2010\. The deadline is April 1 for the Workshop proposals, and February 19 for the Individual Paper Proposals. Additional information can be found on the conference website: <http://www.metropolis2010.org>.

A conference on "Human Rights/Social Rights: The Twentieth-Century Predicament" will take place on December 2-4 2010 in Berlin/Potsdam, organized by Malgorzata Mazurek (Zentrum fur Zeithistorische Forschung Potsdam) in conjunction with Sandrine Kott (Universita de Genave), Paul Betts (University of Sussex), Andreas Eckert (Humboldt-Universitat zu Berlin) and Stefan-Ludwig Hoffmann (ZZF). The keynote speech will be by Frederick Cooper (New York University). By examining competing traditions and shifting meanings of human rights, this conference seeks a critical understanding of social rights in the making of the contemporary world. It explores historically the ways in which regimes of social rights converged with the concept of human rights as a result of wartime and postwar experiences. At the same time it seeks to understand when, how and why social rights have been defined, pursued and applied as a concept on its own terms in diverse political orders and spaces (democracies, dictatorships, empires and nation-states). Our intention is to bring together scholarship on histories of (state) socialism, welfare-states, international organizations as well as colonialism and post-colonialism, while stressing different historical lineages of human rights. If you are interested in presenting a paper, please send a short abstract of your proposed paper (max. 500 words), an abstract of your ongoing research related to the subject of the conference (max. 1000 words) as well as your curriculum vitae. The deadline for submissions is February 15, 2010\. The papers will be pre-circulated among all participants to leave room for discussion at the conference. Please address all queries and abstracts to: Malgorzata Mazurek <socialrights@zzf-pdm.de>.

#### 4\. Recent Publications

##### Books (prices in US\$)

- Agunias, Dovelyn Rannveig (2009) Closing the Distance: How Governments Strengthen Ties with Their Diasporas (MPI), \$19.95.
- Ata, Abe (2009) Us and Them: Muslim-Christian Relations and Cultural Harmony in Australia (Australian Academic Press) \$29.95.
- Bertelsmann Stifting and Migration Policy Institute (eds.) (2009) Migration, Public Opinion and Politics (Transatlantic Council on Migration), \$30.
- Bonifacio, Tibe Glenda (2009) Gender, Religion, and Migration: Pathways of Integration (Lexington), \$64.13.
- Capanema de Almeida, Silvia and Anias Flechet (eds.) (2009) De La Democratie raciale au multiculturalisme: Bresil, Ameriques, Europe (Peter Lang), \$45.95.
- Clark, Kamari Maxine and Mark Goodale (eds.) (2009) Mirrors of Justice: Law and Power in the Post-Cold War Era (Cambridge UP), \$87.83.
- Council of Europe (2009), Heritage and Beyond (Council of Europe), \$46.
- de Guchteneire, Paul, Antoine Pecoud and Ryszard Cholewinski (2009) Migration and Human Rights: The United Nations Convention on Migrant Workers' Rights (UNESCO), \$121.37.
- De Schutter, Helder and Ronald Tinnevelt (eds.) (2010) Do Co-Nationals Have Priority Over Other Human Beings? Essays on David Miller (Routledge), \$126.67.
- Cohen, Elizabeth (2009) Semi-Citizenship in Democratic Politics (Cambridge UP), \$80.
- Jesse, Neal and Kristen Williams (2010) Ethnic Conflict: A Systematic Approach to Cases of Conflict (CQ Press), \$42.95.
- Jones, Steven and Eric Sheffield (eds.) (2009) The Role of Religion in 21st Century Public Schools (Peter Lang), \$32.95.
- Kahane, David, Daniel Weinstock, Dominique Leydet, and Melissa Williams (2010) Deliberative Democracy in Practice (UBC Press), \$85.
- Kamusella, Tomasz and Krzystof Jaskulowski (eds.) (2009) Nationalisms Today (Peter Lang), \$70.95.
- Klusmeyer, Douglas B. and Demetrios Papademetriou (2009) Immigration Policy in the Federal Republic of Germany (Berghahn), \$85.63.
- Marc, Alexandre (2009) Delivering Services in Multicultural Societies (World Bank), \$25.
- Prugl, Elisabeth and Markus Thiel (eds.) (2009) Diversity in the European Union (Palgrave), \$99.94.
- Stefano Recchia and Nadia Urbinati (eds.) (2009), Giuseppe Mazzini's Writings on Democracy, Nation Building, and International Relations (Princeton UP), \$29.95.
- Reed-Danahay, Deborah and Caroline Brettell (eds.) (2008) Citizenship, Political Engagement, and Belonging: Immigrants in Europe and the United States (Rutgers University Press), \$25.95.
- Samito, Christian G. (2009) Becoming American Under Fire: Irish Americans, African Americans, and the Politics of Citizenship during the Civil War Era (Cornell University Press), \$31.96.
- Timmerman, Christiane et al (eds.) (2009) In-Between Spaces: Christian and Muslim Minorities in Transition in Europe and the Middle East (Peter Lang), \$56.95.

##### Journal Special Issues

There is a special issue on ethnic censuses and regime change in Critique Internationale (#45, 2009), guest-edited by Morgane Labbe, with articles by Labee, Dominique Arel, Eloi Ficquet, Vatthana Pholsena, and Marie Lader-Fouladi.

There is a symposium on "Realignments of citizenship", guest-edited by Rainer Baubock and Virginie Guiraudon in Citizenship Studies vol. 13/5 (2009), with articles by Christine Chwaszcza, Michael Keating, Bruno de Witte, and the editors.

There is a review symposium on Veit Bader's book Secularism or Democracy? in Ethnicities Vol. 9/4 (2009), with reviews by Will Kymlicka, Rajeev Bhargava and Christian Joppke, and a response from Bader.

There is a symposium in the Journal of International Migration and Integration Volume 10 Number 4 (2009) that focuses on Migration, Crime and Justice with articles by Scot Wortley, Rob White, Jock Collins and Carol Reid, Scott H. Decker, Frank van Gemert and David C. Pyrooz, Marian J. Rossiter and Katherine R. Roissiter, Annmarie Barnes and Scott Wortley and Akwasi Owusu-Bempah.

There is a symposium on "Toward More Realistic Models of Deliberative Democracy" in the Journal of Political Philosophy Vol. 18/1, (2010) with articles by Andre Bachtiger, Simon Niemeyer, Michael Neblo, Marco R. Steenbergen and Jurg Steiner, Jane J. Mansbridge with James Bohman, Simone Chambers, David Estlund, Andreas Follesdal, Archon Fung, Cristina Lafont, Bernard Manin and Jose Luis Marti, and Claudia Landwehr.

There is a symposium on the national and international legal dimensions of accommodating ethnic diversity in the Balkans in the Review of Central and East European Law Review (Vol. 34, #4, 2009), with articles by Joseph Marko, Benedikt Harzl, Alice Engl, Florian Bieber, Soren Keil, Bernhard Knoll, and Markko Kallonen.

The journal Citizenship Teaching and Learning has a special issue on "Canadian Perspectives on Democracy, Diversity and Citizenship Education" (Vol. 5/2, 2009), guest-edited by Alan Sears, with articles by Yvonne Hebert, Mark Evans, Jeff Orr and Robyn Ronayne, Kristina Llewellyn and Joel Westheimer, Carla Peck, and Ottilia Chareka.

#### 5\. Call for Papers

Australasian Canadian Studies, the official journal of the Association for Canadian Studies in Australia and New Zealand (ACSANZ), invites submissions for a special issue on "Globalising Indigeneity: New Research Directions". The journal is looking for paper engaging with contemporary Indigenous issues in an Australian, Canadian and/or New Zealand context. Possible themes include: Culture, Nation and Identity; Human Rights; Government Interventions; Health; Land and Resources; Removal of Children; Self-reliant governance; Intellectual Property and Museum Anthropology. Articles should be sent by email to the Journal Editor Dr Robyn Morris at <robynm@uow.edu.au> by February 1st, 2010\. For more information, send an email to Dr Robyn Morris or visit website [www.acsanz.org.au/cfp.html](http://www.acsanz.org.au/cfp.html).

The Canadian Social Work Journal is soliciting short articles for a special issue on the settlement and integration of newcomers to Canada. The special issue will be edited by a combined team of academic social workers and policy-makers. Although social workers have been working towards culturally sensitive service, the predicaments and challenges that newcomers face are beyond cultural or racial discrimination. Newcomers arrive through a range of programs which may impact on their life chances and outcomes in the social, economic, cultural and civic spheres of Canadian life. Many social workers are not adequately prepared to work with these populations and there is a need to raise awareness of the challenges faced by newcomers among the social work profession. This special issue will feature articles by researchers and practitioners that illustrate the range of issues faced by newcomers and present considerations and best practices to guide social workers in their work with newcomers. In addition, this special issue is an opportunity to promote the roles and functions of social work among the policy-makers and practitioners in the field of immigrant settlement and integration. The deadline for submission of articles is February 22, 2010\. Please address enquiries and articles to: Meredith Henley (<Meredith.henley@cic.gc.ca>).

The editors of a volume on "Citizenship, Democracy, and the University: Theory and Practice in Europe and North America" are seeking papers exploring the role of post-secondary educational institutions in preparing citizens for meaningful participation in democracies, whether in Western Europe, Eastern Europe, and North America. Chapters may focus on particular approaches within a college or university, or may discuss how the efforts or issues of a different sector (e.g. schools, NGOs, businesses, governments, communities) hold implications for colleges and universities. The volume is being edited by Jason A. Laker (Queen's University), Kornelija Mrnjaus (University of Rijeka, Croatia) and Concepción Naval (Universidad de Navarra, Spain). Interested contributors are encouraged to inquire with questions. Proposals of 1-3 pages should be sent via email attachment in English containing a draft title, abstract, and outline; along with a current CV or résumé to <jason.laker@queensu.ca> by Tuesday, March 1st, 2010.

The editors of a historical encyclopedia of immigration, a reference work to be published by Greenwood Press/ABC-CLIO, are inviting writers to express their interest in providing essay-length entries of between 6,000 and 8,000 words, with up-to-date bibliography, on a wide range of topics on immigration history in the United States. This is a time-sensitive project, with expected publication in the winter of 2010\. Essays have a March deadline for drafts, with final copy due by April. An honorarium will be provided to authors. Prospective writers are asked to contact the editor by email (<pjhayesphd@gmail.com>).

#### 6\. Fellowships and Courses

The Centre for Refugee Studies at York University is holding its Summer Course on Refugee and Forced Migration Issues on May 8-16 2010 in Toronto. The Summer Course is an internationally acclaimed eight-day course for academic and field-based practitioners working in the area of forced migration. It serves as a hub for researchers, students, service providers and policy makers to share information and ideas. The Summer Course is designed for academic and field-based practitioners working in the area of forced migration. Participants typically include government officials, non-government organization personnel, university faculty, and graduate students. Forms and Information may be accessed from <http://www.yorku.ca/crs/summer.htm>, or by contacting Summer Course Coordinator Irene Connie Tumwebaze at <summer@yorku.ca>.

The Center of Study and Investigation for Global Dialogues (Barcelona, Spain) is offering a two-week summer institute (in English) open to advanced undergraduate/graduate students, post-doctoral candidates, junior faculty and professionals on decolonial thought and knowledge on "Decolonizing Knowledge and Power: Postcolonial Studies, Decolonial Horizons", to be held in Tarragona, Spain on July 8-22, 2010\. The international Summer School is in its second year and aims at enlarging the scope of the conversation (analysis and investigation) of the hidden agenda of modernity (that is, coloniality) in the sphere of knowledge, power and higher education. The professors invited for the 2010 Decolonizing Knowledge and Power Summer School cover different thematic fields of study, historical periods and regions of the world: Africa, Europe, the Americas, the Atlantic, the Caribbean and the US. This year's faculty include Chela Sandoval, Salman Sayyid, Nelson Maldonado-Torres, James Cohen, Ramón Grosfoguel, Oscar Guardiola-Rivera, Kwame Nimako, Tiffany Ruby Patterson and Daphne V. Taylor-García. The deadline for applications is February 1st, 2010\. For more information, visit the website: <http://www.dialogoglobal.com/application.php>.

The ZEIT-Stiftung Ebelin und Gerd Bucerius has established a scholarship program focusing on migration and urban studies. The scholarship program entitled "Settling Into Motion: The Bucerius Ph.D. Scholarships in Migration Studies" started in 2008 and hosts currently 22 international fellows. It seeks to address the ongoing transformations in societies where migration is just one factor among others generating change. For 2010 proposals studying "Migration, Diversity and the Future of Modern Societies" are especially welcome. Within this international program, the ZEIT-Stiftung grants six to eight Ph.D. scholarships per year. Applicants must be Ph.D. students of (in a broad sense) social sciences. The scholarships involve a monthly stipend of 1.200 Euros as well as yearly conferences and workshops. The deadline for applications is 25 February 2010\. Please find further information as well as the online application on the program's website: <http://www.settling-into-motion.de>.

#### 7\. Related Research Projects

The Immigrant Voting Project is a resource and a network dedicated to promoting informed discussion about the practice of noncitizen immigrants voting, focusing on the United States. The Project is premised on the view that immigrant voting promotes civic participation, gives voice to one of the last disenfranchised segments of the population, and increases government accountability in immigrant communities. For more details, visit the Project website, <http://www.immigrantvoting.org/>, which contains many resources on the history and contemporay practice of non-citizen voting in the U.S.

The Carnegie Council on Ethics and International Affairs has posted a collection of papers on "The Right to Move", exploring the ethics of an international right to migration. Authors include James Farrer, Devin T. Stewart, Florian Coulmas, John Haffner, Mark Raper, and Mathias Risse. For access to the papers, and more information on the Right to Move project, visit: <http://www.policyinnovations.org/ideas/briefings/data/000159?sourceDoc=000017>.

The National Foundation for Education Research in Britain has recently released three publications of potential interest to readers: (1) "Embedding citizenship education (CE) in secondary schools in England (2002-08)" - the seventh annual report from the Citizenship Education Longitudinal Study (CELS), concentrating on emerging lessons from 12 longitudinal case-study schools that CELS has been following since CE became a statutory part of the curriculum in 2002; (2) "Citizenship and values education to the rescue! A shared call to action" by the Five Nations Network, calling on politicians and policy makers to make a renewed commitment to citizenship and values education to enable young people to engage with our increasingly complex, challenging and changing world; and (3) "Pupil assessment in citizenship education: purposes, practices and possibilities", a report exploring whether and how pupils can be assessed in citizenship education, collecting comparative information on current policies, purposes and practices in eight countries - England, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, The Netherlands, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales. All NFER reports on citizenship education are available on their website at: <http://www.nfer.ac.uk/citizenship/>.

The Interdisciplinary Research Group in Immigration (GRITIM) at the Universitat Pompeu Fabra in Barcelona is pleased to announce the beginning of its on-line publication, GRITIM-UPF Working Paper Series. The main purpose is to disseminate academic research work-in-progress that contributes to the European approach on immigration and diversity. We want to encourage all researchers working in the field to submit their proposals to <gritim@upf.edu>. For more information, visit the Working Paper website (<http://upf.edu/gritim/coneixement/workingpaper.html>) or contact Núria Franco Guillén, GRITIM Coordinator, at <http://www.upf.edu/gritim> or <gritim@upf.edu>.

---

### Announcements

If you would like to announce a new research project, publication, call for papers, or upcoming conference in a future issue of this newsletter, please contact us at <cded@post.queensu.ca>, or you can write to the Forum for Philosophy and Public Policy, Department of Philosophy, Queen's University, Watson Hall 313, Kingston Ontario K7L 3N6, Canada. Fax: 613-533-6545.

Special thanks to Octavian Busuioc for research help, and to Lise Charlebois for help with the distribution of the newsletter.
